=== INTRODUCTION ===

A close-knit collective of states bound by their connection to the Siayeo Nexus, both a physical construct and a centuries-old religious and socioeconomic institution dedicating itself to the consecration of Flow and worship of the Great Tree. 

:: The Roots ::
Temples of the Great Tree govern the construction and maintenance of the Roots, an extensive network of canals, aqueducts, and pipeworks transferring material and mechanical power to and from the Wells: sophisticated, ritualised pumping stations reliant on the unique magical and mechanical expertise of the Nexus' temple-adepts. Be it with pressurised systems capable of launching cargo barges, or carefully-sloped capillaries conveying trickles of consecrated water, the cities and towns of the Siayeo Nexus have always been deeply interconnected - with the advent of steam power, the significance of this has only grown. Now, to sever the Root is to deprive a community not just of its spirit, but its livelihood. For better or for worse, the roots of power fall increasingly into the hands of the Siayeo clergy.

:: Origins ::
The Siayeo Nexus began around 1200 years ago, a minor builder's cult in the latter days of the ancient Yeoxli Empire. By chance, it rose to power in the imperial capital of Eiyanyxsie, granted custodianship of the city's aqueducts by the rebel warlord Hakshayxa, who hailed the start of a century of chaos.

As the empire dissolved, its artisans and craftsmen fled across the Western sea, leaving much of its war-torn infrastructure to decay. With over a quarter of the empire's agriculture dependent on waterworks, the surviving inland rump state of Greater Yeoxli leaned heavily on the Nexus in their efforts to restore them. Short funds, food, and labour, however, the repairs failed to restore sufficient flow for much beyond religious purposes - still, the Nexus became revered by its beneficiaries, and when Greater Yeoxli collapsed, the Nexus became the sole unifying body of the bygone empire.



=== 