// s0 :: Internal Relations of Siayeo

// -- // -- s0.0.1 :: The Siayeo Constituency - The Conclave
The Siayeo Nexus acts in ways both integral and parallel to its constituency. At its head exists the Conclave, a ritually-selected council of thirteen who interpret, convey, and convene upon the edicts and messages embedded within the telegraphic chorus of the Nexus; it is the duty of the Adepts dedicated to each Well to interpret this song in a way befitting the will of the Great Tree, and convey information relevant to the Nexus back to the Conclave and its advisory bodies, via mundane or telegraphic means.

// -- // -- s0.0.2 :: The Siayeo Constituency - The Adepts
The Siayeo Adepts refer not to a singular organised body, but a common duty enshrined by the doctrine of the Nexus: custody and cultivation of the Root, and through it the conveyance and petitioning of the will of the Great Tree. The Conclave are most sacred, cultivating the Branch, yet are but one of many bodies taking on the role of Adept; of these, many identify much more closely with their own people and domain than the sacred diktat. Yet the role of Adept is neither earned nor kept easily: it is by the will of the Great Tree, and the discretion of the Conclave, that the blessing of Breath is extended to each Well. Just as easily, it can be taken away.

// -- s0.1 :: [PARENT] The Siayeo Allied States
The allied states host to the Siayeo Constituency are both independent and diverse in origin, each having chosen - of their own accord, or as a consequence of historical events - to embrace the Nexus and the blessing of the Root. They are divided into four historicultural sections: the Yeoxli, the Eiyan, the Qayan, and the Tiaremet.
.. Yeoxli States (SW) - Eiyanixie (W-Y), Xosed (SW-Y), Urwe (C-Y)
.. Souyan States (SE) - Shisha (S-Q), Lhoayan (NE-Y) [Lhoaast]
.. Qayan States (ENE) - Anggayan (E-Q), Miayan (NE-I), Yiwayan (N.-Q)
.. Tiaremet States (NW) - Kifia (W-Q), Ineng (NW-I)
[ -Y, -Q, -I for territory on Yeoxli, Qayan, and Ineng/Nanask mainlands respectively ]

// -- // -- s0.1.1 :: Yeoxli States
By the late 300s, the collapse of both the Yeoxli Empire and succeeding Greater Yeoxli had left the region weak and in disarray. With little naval power to speak of, the fertile coastal regions struggled against foreign powers that once quailed at their might; the West, disconnected and with little loyalty to Eiyanixie, seceded entirely. Unable to survive as a single nation, Greater Yeoxli had split into the Eiyan Yeoxli and Xaqa Yeoxli that, while closely allied, could only truly support each other across treacherous overland routes that had decayed with the Empire. Further administrative and infrastructural decay soon led to even more comprehensive dissolution in the 430s, forming five Yeoxli states: Eiyanixie and Xosed, of the Eiyan Yeoxli, and Urwe, Shisha, and Lhoaast, of the Xaqa Yeoxli. The Xaqa Yeoxli, despite formerly boasting impressive coastal defenses, lost many to lack of maintenance, rampant piracy and the advent of powerful cannon, the latter proving instrumental to the Anggayan and Yiwayan conquest of Shisha and Lhoaast in 470 and 497. Urwe withstood assault due to aid from Eiyanixie, but the severance of the Root at Shisha and the exhaustion of Eiyanixie began to raise questions regarding its fragility: the Great Tree, for all its power, had proven insufficient to protect a state that increasingly appeared unable to defend it in turn.

The 6th and 7th centuries brought Yiwayan dominance to the Yunamer Passage, and with it a measure of stability. The defeated Yeoxli states, having made a tentative peace with Yiwayan and Anggayan, could finally turn their focus to inland affairs, realigning and conquering their Southern neighbours to reform the mountainous border that had protected the old Empire. The Siayeo Nexus, no longer in crisis, began exploring its role in the newly established Souyan territories; of the Souyan Adepts, a significant number emigrated to Qayan to preach and study, facilitating the transmission of ideas and techniques that had previously gone unappreciated in war-torn Yeoxli. Lhoayan, furthest from the Branch, was particularly prolific in their experimentation - in 660, the first Living Ark was created by Adepts who had illicitly pruned the Great Tree in Eiyanixie. When the Living Ark was shown to convey the Root without continuity, the Conclave was divided; many realized its potential, but the requisite mutilation was deemed heretical and condemnable by Severance. The Arks already constructed were deemed sacred relics, and were used to extend the Siayeo Nexus to the remainder of the Qayan States over the next seventy years.

Despite over a century of recovery, neither the Eiyan nor Xaqa Yeoxli were able to field a seagoing navy strong enough to defend the Yunamer Passage or its trade fleets by 768. With Yiwayan weakening, the Souyan rebels still under Yiwayan jurisdiction, and Miayan busy in the North, Urwe sent emissaries to Anggayan to extract promises of an anti-piracy treaty - neither could occupy the passage on their own, but their combined fleets would be capable of stabilizing the region until the assumed return of Yiwayan supremacy. At the same time, the spreading of the Root beyond Yiwayan influence swayed the Conclave to apparently-neutral Anggayan, bringing them into a close diplomatic relationship with Eiyanixie; as Yiwayan decline - and lack of interference - became more apparent, Anggayan-Yeoxli relations were allowed to develop into an alliance in all but name. Urwe would go on to serve as the primary convention site for international agreements across the Siayeo Nexus, being the initiator of the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement, 839 Eight Banner Coalition, and the 880 signing of the Qrhin-Tiwu Ban International Bloc.

// -- // -- s0.1.2 :: Souyan States
Originating as colonies subject to Qayan rule, the Souyan territories were conquered from the Xaqa Yeoxli in the late 400s. Though culturally and economically distinct, they were forcibly brought into the fold of of coastal Yiwayan and Anggayan, chafing under the heavy taxation imposed to fund their navies - with the Yeoxli collapse and the proliferation of navigation and gunpowder, control of the once-secure Yunamer Passage increasingly became a contest of upstart foreigners. In 502, a Shisha conspiracy successfully eliminated Anggayan control with aid of Yiwayan naval support, which quickly swept in to suppress the rebellion and gain control of Shisha for themselves; though major revolts would recur for the next four decades, Yiwayan's dominion of the Souyan colonies would consolidate its control of the Yunamer Passage and establish it as the dominant Qayan power of the 6th and 7th centuries.

It would only be with the rise of the 8th-century Kifian Republic that Yiwayan strength began to brittle, levying countless troops from Souyan while stripping its fortresses for material to defend the Western borderlands. For many, the burden demanded concessions that Yiwayan was unwilling to give; in the midst of the Crimson Rain of 768, Souyan revolutionaries took the chance to declare independence and expel the diminished military presence in the occupied territories. Initially this was conducted by a regional movement, with order maintained by a unified Souyan Provisional Government - but the rise of the Kifian Republic, along with the advent of several other political ideologies, caused schisms in the planning council that led to the formation of influential blocs. Shisha, closer to Kifia, fell under the control of a dubiously representative Republican Council. Lhoayan turned fully from the SPG's revolutionary ideals, embracing the perceived stability of a monarchy; feeling threatened by the region's liberal rhetoric, the new king ordered the arrest and execution of thousands of political prisoners before turning to foreign advisors for economic reform. The SPG, powerless within a year of its conception, was officially dissolved in the winter of 780.

Though the Souyan Secession caused a resurgence of piracy in the Yunamer Passage, the decline of Yiwayan strength invited the influence - and advice - of foreign powers sought by the new Lhoayan state. Conversely, Shisha, seeking a favorable relationship with the Kifian Republic, quickly fell in line with the emergent Anggayan hegemony; in 772 it became a signatory of the 770 Urwe-Anggayan anti-piracy treaty, a naval bloc that began to encroach on the economic and diplomatic exchanges of Lhoayan. Lhoayan, having benefited greatly from foreign investment, sought to establish itself as a naval power in the Siayeo East, cementing its position through a series of military and trade agreements with its former coloniser, Yiwayan. In doing so it drew the attention of Kifia, with which it engaged in a prolonged ideological campaign; Kifian support would prove vital to the survival of many Lhoayan factions persecuted by the current regime, but its impact would not be felt until the decline of Lhoayan during the 837 Yiwayan Civil War, in which it fought with foreign expeditionaries against the forces of the Yiwayan Republican Alliance and the Eight Banner Coalition of 839. With war and economic hardship re-opening old wounds, the Lhoayan monarchy would eventually be overthrown in an anarchist coup, followed by the withdrawal of the Lhoayan Expedition and the establishment of the Kifian-aligned Lhoayan Free State in 844. Lhoayan would go on to sign the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement in 851.

// -- // -- s0.1.3 :: Qayan States
The Qayan states of the equatorial East earned their common name during a unified period in the 3rd and 4th centuries, when previously separate tribes came together in a time of natural disasters and incursions from the West. Though the federation eventually fell to infighting, its conventions became the cultural foundation of the Qayan, many styling themselves after the Four Bannered Delegations of legend. Various Qayan states have since risen and fallen, with hegemonic periods lasting up to a century - but with strong maritime traditions and powerful states on all sides, it was never long before a new alliance rose at the expense of the old. The swamps and mountainous jungles of the Qayan heartland have at once proved reliable bastions against foreign occupation, and an ever-present frustration to Qayan unification efforts; now as in the past, the true strength of the Qayan states cannot manifest without cooperation.

Yiwayan and Anggayan, the central Qayan, had long contested Yeoxli naval dominance in the Eastern seas. As the Yeoxli states weakened, the fertile lands they claimed became increasingly attractive to conquer - and in the late 400s, the Souyan colonies were established where Yeoxli land once stood. Anggayan, its attention split between its Souyan possessions, the foreign-contested Yunamer, and Yiwayan-allied Miayan, would prove unable to keep its Souyan positions. Yiwayan endured, and through its newfound wealth became hegemon of the Yunamer Passage. Up through the decade of the Kifian March, its monopoly over equatorial tradelanes would fuel a blossoming of prosperity and culture; crucially, its Souyan links would enable importation of the Siayeo Nexus, having discovered a method of extending the Root across the sea. Despite all this, its old rivals, while quieted, were not truly defeated. Allied Miayan had long turned Westwards to further its interests, The marginalised Yeoxli states and Anggayan had created an informal alliance, and the Souyan colonies made possible a war on two fronts; as Yiwayan weakened, a new axis prepared to take its place.

The Crimson Rains of 761 and 768 were a shock to the peoples of Qayan: spectacles of willingly organised death on a scale unfelt since the collapse of the Yeoxli Empire. Yet what appetite for peace had grown in the North, only fed perceptions of weakness as seen by the South - the secession of Souyan, the quartering of Miayan, and the exhaustion of Yiwayan all contributed to the emboldening of Anggayan, which took advantage of Kifian troubles to effectively establish a Northern co-protectorate in Ineng. At the same time, chaos in Souyan together with pressure from Eiyanixie and Urwe helped quicken the withdrawal of Siayeo trust in Qayan, while extension of the Nexus through Kifia rendered the Conclave reluctant to engage with belligerents of the Crimson Rains; nevertheless, trouble in the North demanded attention, and the Conclave turned increasingly to Anggayan to mediate their affairs. Miayan, in the meanwhile, suffered less in the Crimson Rains than its landbound ally - damaging though the war had been, it maintained a firm presence over the Inengi Strait and its tradelanes, its primary source of wealth. Yet with Souyan estranged and the Siayeo and Yeoxli alike favouring Anggayan, Miayan too eventually turned from Yiwayan, signing a free trade agreement with Anggayan-aligned Urwe in 790 to offset the loss of its most resource-rich territories. In the year 801, Anggayan, Miayan, Ineng, Shisha, Urwe, Xosed, and Eiyanixie became signatories of the Yunamer Passage Agreement, forming the basis for the 839 Eight-Banner Coalition and present-day Qrhin Twiu Ban.

Yiwayan, surrounded on all sides and marginalised by the new order, suffered a series of economic crises triggered by the loss of its overseas assets. With the nation in decline and Anggayan tacitly supporting Kifian ideological programs in Yiwayan territory, its politics fell under the influence of various reformist and extremist factions embittered by the entrenched inequality of the previous century. Allying with monarchist Lhoayan in an attempt to maintain relevance at sea, Yiwayan became exposed to royalist counter-operations that worsened its political polarisation and, in 837, caused a series of incidents that sparked the beginning of the Yiwayan Civil War. Kifian, Ineng, and Shisha immediately dispatched expeditionaries to Yiwayan, causing previously antagonistic factions to rally to the banner of the Yiwayan Republican Alliance; the Yiwayan Royalists, momentarily pushed back, were in turn bolstered by the arrival of the Lhoayan Expedition and the steady intake of foreign aid and volunteers. Fighting continued until 839, having ground to a stalemate - but as war again devastated Yiwayan, Lhoayan military support and reliance on foreign equipment increased to the point that Anggayan and Urwe, on the basis of the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement, formed the Eight Banner Coalition of Anggayan, Urwe, Eiyanixie, Xosed, Shisha, Miayan, Kifia, and Ineng to expel foreign influence from Yiwayan. With Coalition support and the collapse of the Lhoayan monarchy in 844, the Yiwayan Republic Alliance was able to finally achieve victory in the spring of 845, establishing the Yiwayan Republican Commonwealth. The Yiwayan Commonwealth became a signatory of the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement in 853.

// -- // -- s0.1.4 :: Tiaremed states
The Kifian Republic arose in the wake of a social revolution - the Tiaremed Enlightenment - that shattered the reigning Nanask kingdom, hegemon over much of the northern continent until the early 720s. Though egalitarian in philosophy, its remoteness and precarity - facing constant threat of invasion by then-dominant Yiwayan to the east - helped solidify the rule of a series of dictators, the most successful of which was able to conquer much of the mainland North in a series of unprecedented campaigns. Unwilling to allow this expansion, the Qayan states of Miayan and Yiwayan, with dominion over present Ineng, Shisha, and Lhoayan, formed an alliance to suppress the Kifians in two successive wars later known as the Crimson Rains of 761 and 768 - so named for the hundreds of thousands of lives callously spent in futile sieges and mass-charges amidst jungle ambushes, flooding, mortar fire, and tropical outbreaks. Both sides were shattered equally, and yet with the Yiwayan navy occupied by the Souyan Secession, the Republican Marines liberated the overseas territory of Ineng from Miuyan control. Little else could be celebrated: by armistice, the mainland fronts had naturally returned to their pre-war borders.

Republican reform of Ineng progressed rapidly, but not without issue: despite being newcomers themselves, the Siayeo Adepts held significant sway in the region. Integrating them was key to gaining the favorable opinion of Ineng citizens, but the necessary provision of an Ark, previously allowed through diplomatic overtures of Miayan, lost recognition in the eyes of the Conclave in Eiyanixie due to the perceived risks of transport through the navally contested waters of the Inengi Strait. Hoping to successfully demonstrate their blueprint of voluntary reform, Kifian ambassadors approached Anggayan - the sole Qayan Nexus member of neutral affiliation - to discuss extending the Root through Kifia towards the Northern Sea, providing an alternative route for the Ark. Over seven months of negotiations, an agreement was eventually made on the basis of a defensive pact and the invitation of Anggayan enforcers, impressing upon the local Adepts the importance of maintaining order. Though this act would spark further conflict in the region, it succeeded in bringing both the Siayeo Conclave and native Ineng Commission in line with the objectives of the Ineng Reform by early 771. In summer of 773, Ineng was officially acknowledged as an independent republic by Anggayan, Kifia, Shisha, Lhoayan, and Xosed. Comparatively bloodless, aspects of the Ineng Reform would be incorporated into republican movements across the Siayeo Nexus.

Kifia would officially invite the Siayeo Nexus from 772 to 790 as part of its negotiations for the Ineng Reform, adopting a close relationship with Anggayan as both an unofficial guarantor of the post-768 peace and provider of its first Siayeo Adepts. Through Anggayan, it acquired peaceful methods of contact with Yiwayan, and with Lhoayan via the Tiaramed-inspired Shisha Republic; while ill-positioned to push republican ideology onto its nominal allies, even the more conservative states of the Anggayan sphere tacitly supported Kifian ideological programs conducted in the territories of its rivals. The Lhoayan monarchy deployed agents in Yiwayan to counteract this practice, while cracking down harder on its own divisions; this accelerated the process of polarisation in Yiwayan, leading to the breakout of the 837 Yiwayan Civil War. The states of Kifia, Ineng, and Shisha were first to send expeditions in support of the Yiwayan Republican Alliance, leading to counter-escalation by Lhoayan, mustering foreign volunteers in defense of the Yiwayan Royalists; this eventually led to intervention from the Anggayan-Urwe axis, forming the 839 Eight Banner Coalition. Kifian participation in the conflict would lead to its signing of the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement in 840, paving the way for its eventual inclusion in the Qrhin Tiwu Ban International Bloc.

// -- s0.1.A :: Qrhin-Tiwu Ban - The Ten Banner Coalition
The Qrhin-Tiwu Ban (meaning - monument-inscribed [gracious]diplomacy-generosity division) is the given title of a series of economic and military cooperation initiatives ratified as part of a single agreement in the spring of 880. First proposed in an 874 convention to renew the 801 Yunamer Passage Agreement, it was pitched as a method of consolidating many of the existing treaties between the founding states of Urwe, Lhoayan, Anggayan, and Eiyanixie. Miayan became a signatory in 891, and the QTB rapidly gained traction following its success in the Shining War of 897 that engulfed the northwestern protectorates of Eiyanixie and forced the movement of the Great Tree to Anggayan. By the time of the 890 Ratification, all major Tiaremet, Souyan, Qayan, and Yeoxli states were signatories of the QTB. The QTB establishes a free trade agreement, judiciary treaty, common diplomatic standard, defensive pact, and emergency aid network between all signatory states, as well as a limited coalition military in the form of the QTPY, or Qhrin-Tiwu PaqangYan (defense/perimeter-strength banner).

The QTPY receives a peacetime stipend to maintain and invest in transport vessels, logistical networks, weapon stockpiles, and its own administration, with the aim of achieving mobilisation readiness. When war is declared, signatory states are expected to supply a five thousand-strong legion, twenty thousand reserves, and an agreed-upon material contribution; these forces typically undergo a minimum of seven days to familiarise themselves before being placed under direct command of the QTPY, with the intent of providing flexible, apolitical (read: rapid) support to local forces and mobilised national armies in the event of a threat to common interests. The QTPY is expected, but not obligated to demobilise at the end of a war, and has at times been allowed to keep some its forces - those not recalled by their originating states - on the condition that their budget, regardless of source, not exceed half the peacetime stipend.




