``` -- Siayeo Skies : Aircraft Development in the Nexus -- ```

Floating lanterns have been constructed and launched in the Nexus from antiquity; in parades and festivals, it was a common practice for prestigious states to launch and guide ornate hot air balloons shaped like fish and eels. In one notable instance, a disgraced prince was exiled by means of being carried aloft by such a contraption, which was found washed up with his corpse on the shores of western Miayan. The discovery of hydrogen, a much stronger lifting gas, together with the introduction of the cork lifeboat in the early 800s elevated the role of the balloon from execution device to surveying tool: free-sailing and with controllable altitude, manned balloons were increasingly used to chart the winds and map the earth. Aerodynamic forms were adopted for tethered balloons over the next century, towards the end of which began deployment of the Nexus' first powered dirigibles.

The Siayeo contributed little in the way of early aircraft engines, having invested primarily in engine technologies that were either too cumbersome or unsuited to high-speed operation. Flight experiments were predominantly steam-powered, shifting to imported Maritovan, Interdincian, and First Stars internal combustion engines as the technology matured - where the Nexus excelled was the exploration of early aerodynamic and fluid theories, having previously built and maintained extensive experimental facilities using flowing water. Kites, gliders, and aerostats, which were of immediate military interest, benefited significantly from both this accumulated expertise and the presence of long linear acceleration tracks. Their priorities, however, seldom included ambitions of independently operated flight - ultimately, the first true aeroplane would not be of Siayeo make.

While members of the Nexus continued to foster aircraft industries to varying degrees, indigenous winged aircraft development did not begin in earnest until the 1012 demonstration of a flying boat fitted with water-injecting petrol engines. Many noted the high power output achieved through the process, and a renewed interest in steam experiments culminated in the emergence of the pulse combustion monotube boiler in 1019 : a compact, simple, and powerful steam generator with few moving parts and no outside energetic investment. Deafeningly loud and plagued with latent instabilities, it nevertheless paved the way for steam aircraft to become a practical reality - and with the limited size of imported petrol engines, steam turbines became the favoured power plant of projects seeking to transport passengers and cargo across the sea.

Steam condensers for aircraft did not properly develop until 1023, and earlier steam planes were reliant on periodic landings to cool large water reservoirs. Dirigible experiments continued to lead the way in the aircraft power plant research, pursuing variation in speed, altitude, layout, and even navigation practice in the quest for greater closed-loop power output. The solution was eventually found in the use of flat, multi-compartment fuel tanks - typically wing-fitted - as combination radiators, heat exchangers, and condensing tanks (once emptied), conveniently preventing heavy fuel oil from freezing in the pipes. Lacking a prominent frontal profile, the new aircraft also benefited from superior aerodynamics at speed, approaching energetic parity with the more thermally efficient internal combustion aircraft; it was at this point that steam aircraft began attracting military attention.

The NT-GS was designed and built in 1026 with the intent of supporting the navy, at a time when QTB fighter forces were known to be highly underperformant. Using sophisticated optics, photography, radio equipment, and high-altitude flight to spot and track targets across large distances without interception - a task at which it succeeded, reaching altitudes of >10,000m at up to 210 kph. While soon outclassed by Maritovan steam jets, its range and rugged construction has allowed it to remain relevant to the present day, if mainly due to the Siayeo cybertronic advantage. The NT-GS became a common sight in meteorological and polar survey missions, where its high-altitude and anti-frost systems - necessary in the humid air of the equator - were of particular relevance.

The Anggayan military's favourable experience with the NT-GS paved the way for the requisition of additional steam aircraft for the air forces of the QTB, ranging from medium-sized multirole aircraft to strategic bombers and cargo carriers. Despite higher projected maintenance, the steam fleet proved remarkably functional, with experienced engineering crews easily able to increase the survivability of airframes to near twice that of piston aircraft on risky assigments. While still unable to match petrol aircraft in weight and low-altitude performance, steam lobbies and logistics efforts pushed for the development of an effective steam fighter - these did not emerge until the adoption of clean-burning methanol-peroxide injectors, used to boost engine performance at the cost of corroding the turbine blades.

By 1020, dirigibles were being displaced in many regions by heavy aircraft. The new planes were faster, less vulnerable to storms, and could land on less prepared ground - but this was not necessarily true in Shisha, now the airship capital of the Nexus. Advancements in steam and insulation technology made possible the thermal steam ballonet, using a novel system of fireboxes and distributed condensers to control pitch and altitude via displacement of air. This eliminated the need to vent lifting gas for buoyancy adjustment, and significantly reduced the complexity of ballast systems; while both capabilities were still considered necessary for emergencies, the new option enabled space to be made for increased lifting capacity.

Shisha dirigibles also pioneered the use of cybertronic flight control systems, lowering the required skill of crews and further reducing the already-low accident rate fostered by the calm equatorial weather of southern Qayan. In some areas, advanced airships could anchor entirely without prepared ground or traffic crews, a task increasingly undertaken by cargo aviatiors. For this reason, dirigibles remained a common standard of civilian and commercial aviation, and seemingly the only limit to their military application was their vulnerability to plane attack - to which the response was to climb ever higher, and develop expansive anti-aircraft gunnery systems incorporating networked acoustic arrays for automatic tracking and firing.