Origin of Siayeo Cybernetics - Life in Liquid

Within the Siayeo Nexus, the duty of governing the Root is both sacred and one in a state of constant advancement. From hydraulic telegraphs to automated reservoirs, the tools needed to sustain the lifeblood of the Nexus grow ever more complex to meet the demands of an increasingly developed society - there is but one Great Tree, and to deliver it to the furthest reaches of all Ten Nations is a neigh-insurmountable task for hands and minds alone.

Even by the year 900, fluidic switches and reservoirs were a common sight across the Nexus; to be an Adept demanded not merely mechanical knowledge, but expertise in the particulars of the Root's innumerable, artisan-made switchboards. When industrialisation swept across the Yeoxli states in the 930s, their metallurgists leveraged the new techniques to produce ever-more intricate valves and governors - with annual manufacture growing into the hundreds of thousands, they would be known the world over for their quality. Yet the theoretical basis for control was underdeveloped, and the will of the Great Tree was still conducted by mortal hands.

In the coastal state of Shisha, the tides are an ever-present hazard. Predicting them is key to the survival of its shipping industry, but just as vital are the countless tide mills and turbines that have developed around its unique circumstances - from astronomical coincidence to the turn of the weather, its city grid must ascertain and contend with immense fluctuations in its power grid and pressurized systems. Perhaps for this reason, it was Shisha - not wealthy Anggayan, nor storied Eiyanixie - which became the birthplace and capital of Siayeo applied cybernetics.

The Miiet-Salo Omen Developer was an early computing project completed in 966, using a massive system of switches, flywheels, reservoirs, rain gauges and floats to simultaneously monitor the tides and track the location and speed of storms. Enabled by the newest hydrodynamic theories and electrical telegraphs, it was commissioned by the Shisha state and used to great success, being able to keep up with the situation where previous meteorologists - undermanned and under-informed - had failed. Rates of dam failure were cut in half, and outbound vessels could pursue their schedules without delay; similar systems would be investigated by coastal states across the Nexus, and the Omen Developer would become the subject of many a convention in its iterations. Yet its components - heavily tailored, and freely modified on the whim of its operators - were not scientifically rigorous, and its success could not be replicated.

The Adepts of Shisha, having grown familiar with operating the Omen Developer, investigated smaller, more self-contained units capable of adding, subtracting, and differentiating. As this was done, they kickstarted a broader movement of Siayeo Adepts moving away from the sole interpretation of 'wilful water' and towards 'dead water' experimentation - this massive mobilisation of expertise would lead to the discovery, and in many cases, embarrassing rediscovery of fluidic principles readily invested into the creation of novel calculators and governors.

A particularly popular endeavour was the invention of instruments to interpret the Great Tree, some of which grew increasingly complex to the point of attempting written word. These faced resistance from the Conclave, for whom this was their sacred duty - so too was it the duty of the Adepts to recognise Its will, but these machines were neither consistent nor beholden to the Root's most legitimate custodians. In the year 981, the Conclave issued a prohibition on the use of 'soulless interpreters' in the act of Conveyance, causing no small amount of confusion and anger; as both the ban and acts of rebellion amongst the Adepts began affecting economies, the Anggayan state saw fit to finally intervene in the growing schism.

The use of ballistic tables was well-established in the ground forces, as was the use of assistive devices in their calculation - Urwe and Kifia in particular invested heavily into the development of superior optics, levels, and rangefinders to enhance the effectiveness of their artillery corps. Likewise at sea, their quality was heavily emphasised as engagement distances grew; however, their accuracy heavily suffered from conditions at sea, and it became increasingly difficult to contest the heavy armament of coastal batteries and the new, nimble torpedo vessels. Hydraulically assisted fire control became widespread by 980, and by that time all the nations of the Siayeo Nexus had developed a keen interest in the recent direction the Adepts had taken. The ban, while it did not affect these developments, threatened the pool of willing engineers - pressure fell on Anggayan to persuade the Conclave to lift the prohibition, and negotiations began in autumn of the next year. 

The Anggayan state chancellors, while supportive of technological benefits, did not disagree with the claims of the Conclave: that the schism was the fault of those who ignorantly disobeyed rightful dogma, who forced this prohibition instituted to spare them true censure. They agreed that interpreters themselves brought little else than chaos, in the hands of lower Adepts - but it was likewise acknowledged that if not so occupied, the premier advantage of the Siayeo navies' best would be dulled. The Shisha Adepts, guaranteed a spot at the negotiating table by their host state, argued vehemently - without the interpreters, the quality of life afforded to their domain through the Root would suffer heavily. Others had brought the same claim, but only in Shisha did the practice become sufficiently entrenched for theirs to be considered valid; this would turn out to be a stroke of luck, as when the Adepts presented their options, they found themselves with the overwhelming and (crucially) undivided backing of seven of the Ten Banners.

From dawn to dusk of eleven days, the case for acknowledgement through the Branching Divine was laid out - the philosophical basis for permitting the interpretive machine, albeit under heavy regulation. Never would an interpretive machine dictate action, nor would it dare to represent the Root in full - its role would be bound to that of direct translation, of the Great Tree and of the Adept alike. In formalising this concept, the language of control was explored and standardised by the Adepts in earnest; with the assistance of several pivotal theorists, the prohibition would be partially lifted in 985, and amended several times thereafter.

The philosophical unification of interpretive machines by the prohibition ironically served to spur further development, as Adepts sought to classify and compare their work in terms of action and reaction. Simplified, consistent interpretive machines - translating the will of the Great Tree, or that of a controller - became more common, and before long there would be creations so sophisticated as to resemble simple life, the Siaganhzai(hydraulic golem) and sections of the Root among them.