**-- The Tiaremed Enlightenment (6th-7th century) --**

Following in the wake of a disillusioned monk, the 6th-7th century Tiaremed Enlightenment was initially a loosely coordinated religious movement gathering in accordance with the 'four earthly aspects' of Tiarem:

Convergence, the mingling of labour through consequence,

Transference, the continuation of blood through labour,

Descendence, the commonality of lineage through mingling of blood,

Deference, the bearing of dues carried through lineage -

outlining what equated then to a labour-based right to dignity and recognition in the framework of noble entitlements, the basis of Tiaremed egalitarianism. Though not directly critical of established hierarchies, Tiaremed teachings condemned those who did not conscientously acknowledge the efforts of those below them, prescribing rituals and consultations to break down the barriers between classes. These would go on to form the basis of Tiaremed democracy, maturing through the mid-900s - but in early days, their main significance was as a religious pretext to gather together.

Indiscriminate of status, Tiaremed meetings would invite those willing to preach the nature of 'worldly karma': the measure and consequence of seeking balance in the living world, rather than within the self and with heaven alone. Interpretations of Tiaremed ideals diverged in focus and character, ranging from ascetic to materially retributive - preceding the conceptualisation of caste abolition and land redistribution, 'virtuous bandits' of radical Tiaremed sects drew the fear and ire of Nanask nobility, kickstarting the deterioration of class relations.

In Nanask's rigid caste system, Tiaremed followers faced persecution and ridicule. Participant nobles were stripped of their rank, and those of lower standing of their lives. Despite this, Tiaremed gatherings grew popular, particularly among the recently conquered - suppressed and dispersed as they were, Tiaremed gatherings were a rare means of forming a common rapport with others sharing or sympathetic to their situation. Tiaremed ideology focused increasingly on matters of resistance and solidarity as a result, with Tiarem's vision of universal respect proving instrumental, but not central to the emergent revolutionary views.

When Nanask's endemic corruption intersected a series of blights, mismanagement and famine swelled Tiaremed movements with peasant rebels. Radical Tiaremed egalitarian and collectivist rhetoric was wielded to unite the disparate revolutionary groups, under a concept that respected the national boundary no more than the sociopolitical. When the weakened social order of Nanask finally shattered, the ensuing waves of violent expansion did not end until the last of the Scarlet Rains, meeting their match in the then-dominant Yiwayan bloc of the Siayeo Nexus.

Kivya ultimately succeeded in breaking the power of Yiwayan and Miayan, but it likewise exhausted the will and resources of the Tiaremed revolution. Economically embrittled and thrown into turmoil by the bloody stalemate, the nascent Tiaremed states of Kivya and Yinenh were tethered to the influence of Anggayan, with the backing of the Nexus. 

The stresses of war were not kind to Tiaremed political experiments, with organisational chaos, factionalism, and economic decline contributing to the eventual rise of a popular dictatorship in Kivya. However, the breaking down of social divisions, the original vision of the Tiaremed movement, was still achieved - albeit largely in pursuit of its military gains, where ideas of total mobilisation and universal participation were used as the basis for the planning and centralisation of resources on an unprecedented scale.






