**Promethium Technology - Arc Radiators**

Strong, lightweight, and conductive, promethium was one of the first materials proposed for the construction of performant air-cooled vehicle condensers. Due to its great expense, however, only a limited number were made, and the concept fell into disuse with the rise of aluminium technology. Thermal applications of promethium were rare until the demonstration of a promethium-based thermionic valve in 994: operating without vacuum and at a much lower temperature than prior thermionics, it could even be operated through exposure to superheated steam, a valuable quality in Siayeo cybertronics. Siayeo engineers quickly grew appreciative of its properties, and by the 1010s prometheum thermal components had re-entered the public consciousness.

Arc radiators of mundane make are neither practical nor worthwhile. It was initially hoped that with aid of an electropotential bias, thermionic electrons could be made to contribute significantly to heat transfer. However, practical operating temperatures seldom dropped below 2500 K, and no amount of cathodic experimentation seemed to resolve the issue of lacklustre atmospheric performance. Experimentation in was thus undertaken by hobbyists and amateurs playing fast and loose with their equipment - in the tractor shed of a Kifian corning mill, one such effort yielded wholly unexpected results.

Skimming powder manufacturing supplies for her experiments, Adept Csebayan formed her electrodes by sintering promethium and copper shards. These were embedded in cooling pipes, directly contacting steam for maximum heat transfer. In a stroke of luck, the electrodes provided many microscopic sites for field emission, and turbulence in the wet steam pipe promoted buildup of static electricity which biased the electrodes. In operation, this produced a small storm of streams and electrically driven air currents, almost than doubling the cooling rate of the apparatus in the wash of its cooling fan.

Promethium arc radiators are fragile, costly, and most importantly, compact - one can spot their characteristic glow everywhere from high-speed locomotives to tanks and aircraft. Of particular interest is their ability to permit effective cooling even in thin atmospheres, with their electronic properties limited more by interfering mass and invested voltage than matters of volume or density - high-altitude vehicles benefit disproportionately from use of arc radiators, and mountaineers must often choose between complaining about automotive malfunction and the visibility of their glow.