== INLAND TRANSPORT ==

Siayeo bulk transport is heavily river and canal-based, with ships and canal boats carrying the vast majority of its goods. Facilitating this are vast networks of narrow-gauge (700mm-1m) rail, transporting goods and people towards and alongside these waterways; the nations of the Nexus have adopted differing approaches to their use and construction, reflecting their diverse circumstances.

-- Canals
Canalisation has had a long history in the Nexus, from its pre-Siayeo roots in Yeoxli irrigation dependency to its recent expansion driven by rising demand for hydrothaumic essence. The construction of mechanised dams for hydrothaumic engines and industrial purposes has accelerated this process further, resulting in the vastly complex systems of locks and channels that now convey the vast majority of the Nexus' cargo.

The inland waterways are operated variously by moving cables, mechanical mules, or by screw or paddle-driven tugboats (steam or electric trolley), depending on region, investment, and the conditions of the waterway. Sophisticated motor guides have been developed for use in densely travelled locks and ports, enabling barge trains to be processed at high rates - using guides and standardised hooks, a set of automatic cranes can facilitate mooring and unmooring tasks within just a few minutes.

A significant portion of Siayeo land is mountainous and monsoon-influenced, with fast flows and seasonal variations having a heavy impact on conditions of the waterway. While canalisation has eased the demands placed on barge trains, it remains that Siayeo inland waterways tend to favour means capable of overcoming adverse conditions. For this reason, screw-driven tugs are often limited to large rivers and canals, while paddle tugs, though favoured for their flexibility, are not the primary mover in artificial waterways. Mechanical mules, be they electric, motorised, or even hydrothaumic, are ubiquitous.

[src: (https://)solar.lowtechmagazine.com/2009/12/trolley-canal-boats/]

-- Rails
Rails in the Siayeo Nexus differ in design from region to region; gravel-ballasted track with wooden ties is common in Yeoxli and Miayan, but less so in the Qayan mainland, where heavy-duty rails are typically encased in a bituminous mixture. Initially a sealant and preservative measure, it eventually replaced the ballast entirely as a means of reducing maintenance and damage from heavy rains, itself providing added strength and support to the rail - an advantage in areas with soft ground, influenced by seasonal groundwater shifts.

-- Trains
Trains in the Siayeo Nexus have an peculiar history. While Siayeo engineers were intimately familiar with steam power by the early 900s, its early implementation in railway transport was largely defined by stationary engines, using systems of ropes, cables, and even hydraulic pipes to convey power to wagons. Attempts to realize self-propelled locomotives often performed poorly or sputtered out due to lack of interest, and progress stalled until the completion of a Maritovan-style railroad in Ineng by 937, complete with imported locomotives.

The railroad itself was short-lived, falling into disrepair after the completion of the canal and public works running alongside it. However, the locomotives gave rise to numerous copycats, and cableless rail networks began operating across northern Qayan - some with conventional locomotives, but many switching to reservoir (fireless) locomotives after a highly publicised debacle involving boiler explosions in purpose-built mountain locomotive models. Notably, access to wood and coal were heavily regulated in Qayan, in efforts to balance the strain of the shipbuilding and smelting industries; it is thought that the use of ersatz fuels contributed heavily, both by increasing the rate of boiler accidents and exacerbating the poor performance of early locomotives that were ill-equipped to effectively combust them.

Steam accumulators, while a new and somewhat accidental technology to Siayeo engineers in the 940s, benefited significantly from expertise in hydraulics and cannon manufacture, incorporating arc-welded seams, tensioned construction, and advanced forming techniques in the pursuit of ever-greater pressures through to the 11th century. For this reason, fireless locomotives and their stationary steam supplies are able to operate at temperatures and pressures inaccessible to conventional locomotive engines; while conduction losses are significant, the resultant gains in thermal efficiency help them to achieve regular payload ranges in the tens of kilometres.

By 950, self-propelled locomotives were operating in all nations of the Nexus. In cities, cable cars and canal boats competed with reservoir engines through to the 990s before transitioning to electric power. Maritovan-style locomotives regained their popularity as their power and reliability increased, aided by reductions in coal prices and the invention of the hydrothaumic incline booster in 958. With the advent of cheap petroleum, however, opinions once again shifted: oil-fuelled locomotives could more easily implement automatic regulators, gaining the favor of engineers and pilots accustomed to the easy handling of reservoir trains.

Fired reservoir locomotives, fitted with fuelled heaters and regenerative condensers for maintaining temperature and charging on the go, were successfully developed by the mid-990s, able to take advantage of stationary steam supplies with significantly extended range. While less popular for intercity freight and passenger routes than faster Maritovan types, they have since become a mainstay of short to medium-range rail networks.