
**Flying Bombs of the Navy - Lemming Torpedoes**

Lemming torpedoes are a type of guided aerial torpedo with a range of 5 to 30 kilometres, with a range-optimised cruising speed of ~190 kph. Launched via catapult, they carry a high-pressure steam reservoir feeding a powerful, but inefficient single-expansion piston engine propshaft; simple barohydraulic circuits control their altitude and airspeed, while bearing and dive timing is either pre-set or determined by way of a simple direction-finding radio antenna filtered using a coded telegraphic sequence. This allows it to home in on active signals from a shepherding aircraft, which guides it during most of the flight - at the terminal phase, the torpedo either executes a triggered descent or homes in on a sacrificial radio beacon placed on or near the target. Neither fast nor maneuverable, these lumbering torpedoes coast steadily through the air; with no need for cooling or intake air, they are able to accomodate sleek aerodynamic forms to compensate their lacklustre motive systems. They are quiet in operation, and those unfortunate enough to experience their effects often record having been struck without warning.

Devised by Lhoayan engineers in late 1018, Lemming torpedoes were originally a weapon of terror - repurposing navigational direction finders, infiltrators would broadcast signals from enemy radio stations to guide small, retrofitted aircraft loaded with large bombs or chlorine gas. While highly inaccurate, these early Lemming torpedoes claimed many lives in the unprepared camps they struck, quickly becoming feared and hated - unlike manned aircraft they would not swerve from gunfire, and their payloads far outstripped in effect the small bombs typically scattered from altitude. Yet these early versions were little more than a one-off surprise weapon, and owed much of their success to the skill and coordination of the infiltrators. This would soon change - Lhoayan was quick to invest in further development of the Lemming torpedo, devising the practice of aerial shepherding in 1023, and the QTB economic reintegration of the 1020s gave access to the cheap reservoir engines and sophisticated control technogies now commonly employed. Coastal defence torpedoes, which fared poorly in the choppy and biomass-choked waters of Yunamer harbours, were the first to be replaced; the Lemming torpedo was trialled as a long-range anti-ship weapon in 1028, quickly becoming the dominant heavy munition of QTB naval aviators.

Lemming torpedoes are carried on variety of platforms, from small frigates to capital ships, but they are launched most often from dirigibles - at altitude they possess extended range, and the mobility of dirigibles is advantageous in gaining a favorable launch position. To resist jamming, the launcher and the shepherd must synchronise signals - this is typically arranged ahead of time, with a telegraphed index being sufficient to program an authorized guidance filter. Once launched, the shepherd must match speed with the torpedo; its continuous broadcast and predictable trajectory makes it highly vulnerable to interception, but advanced models of Lemming torpedo can track signals from high altitudes where fighters and flak fire are less of a danger. The shepherd then must intersect the path of the target, and when near, deliver the command to lower the torpedo's altitude to impact level. This is not always reliable, and the torpedo may overshoot or splash into the sea - but especially skilled bombardiers can guide the occasional torpedo to plow through the deck, causing great devastation. A variant of the Lemming torpedo is designed for use against airships, maintaining altitude by keeping level with the shepherd signal; this variant renders the shepherd especially vulnerable, and the torpedo must proceed unguided during the terminal stage. However, it is far more accurate than artillery against fast-moving, distant targets, and is one of the dominant means for QTB watercraft to engage their airborne counterparts at range.

The Lemming torpedo is by no means foolproof - the vast majority are destroyed or otherwise waylaid, either in transit or by anti-aircraft fire from the target. Their range is limited, their altimeters are susceptible to weather, and roughly a third are estimated to experience malfunctions precluding successful impact. Yet they are of relatively little expense, demand no special fuel beyond water and heat, and their means of guidance means they can be launched and shepherded in volleys, separated only by programmed adjustments to cruising altitude. It is a revolutionary bomb for the QTB - particularly with the limitations of its aircraft, which cannot steadily and competitively deliver heavy munitions at low altitude.



