**-- Speech Excerpt (1024) : 3rd Address for Medyanh Intervention -- **

```"We give our blood to national prosperity, and the turtle shows its back. We give our hunger to the national vision, and the forest becomes our grain. We are of Anggayan as Anggayan is of us, and for our recognition of this we have achieved an unprecedented security - from war, from hunger, from the scourges of the water. For our recognition of greatness, we collect the trust of brotherhood, reap the gains of cooperative prosperity. For the Anggayan, it is self-evident.

Yet among us, there is doubt. Who is it that questions? I ask, and we ask, for we are all curious - even in these troubled times, Anggayan stands strong. What does it lack that it would not capture our confidence completely? And to that I can give an answer: Anggayan is strong, in these times, and it has not been lacking. The economy is booming. Our industry is without peer. Each day brings exciting new frontiers to our homes and stations, and now our poorest eat better than the merchants of Skhaba. But this has become possible not only through our pride for Anggayan, but through the vastness of our natural responsibility - who grows the wheat that fills our stomachs? Who fashions the switches that govern our traffic? Who mines the prometheum that allows us worship?

Some of us have not asked these questions. Failed to question as a citizen should, and turned instead to doubt the heavy burdens of our duty. They are the ones who have forgotten that Anggayan is not just its land, but all that trust in its promise: we, our siblings, our vassals - the Great Tree itself, and what it wills through the Nexus in its entirety. What is that trust, when we do not fail to protect our charges? What is that faith, when we stand by and watch the slaughter of the faithful?"```

```For six long years, blood drained over sacred ground. For four of those years, we stood by as the brave among us went forth, leaving behind their homes, friends, and family for the pledge of the Blackwater Guides[1]. Yet for all their efforts, the blood continues to flow - and I say it must, for it to cleanly come to an end. The wound is infected, and in our inaction it has only continued to fester.

Five days and five nights ago, we learned anew that the Medyanh have truly lost all civility. At the end of a cold gun, seventy-four of our most noble citizens lost their lives. Fifty-two families lost a child that day, thirty a sibling, and seventeen a parent. It is an unforgivable, criminal act that is committed against us, as it is thoughtlessly committed against themselves many times over; five days ago, we lost the last excuse to deny that this war does not affect us, and our citizens. No more can it be tolerated.

To march, we must vote; we vote, to take up arms in the name of order. To you of faith, I bid we sacrifice for the peace and prosperity that makes Anggayan great."```
*:  Broadcast by Consulate Public Orator Lun Liak, prior to the the 1025 Medyanh Expedition.*

[1]: like doctors w/o borders, but with a stronger focus on clean water, etc.