https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/pdfplus/10.2514/6.2003-6841
https://h2tools.org/sites/default/files/2019-08/paper_154.pdf
https://www.nrc.gov/docs/ML1731/ML17319B197.pdf
------

**Siayeo Advanced Aerostats : Steam Hybrid Balloons**
-- --

The use of hot air in ballooning has a long history in the Nexus, with records of their use reaching back to antiquity. Though only considered safe for passengers in recent centuries, penal battalions have long been employed as a means of battlefield observation - during the Crimson Rains of the mid-700s, balloons were vital to the firing of heavy cannon amidst the thick mountain jungles of central Qayan. Those fated for execution would be granted pardon if they survived ten flights, and granted a small sum for their service - a judicial practice continuing to the present day, with a particularly infamous destination being the prometheum mines of An Ze.

Hydrogen aerostats were adopted enthusiastically by the militaries of the Nexus, being much more efficient and less susceptible to the weather; however, as aerostats grew more complex across the mid to late 900s, so too did the means of destroying them. Incendiary rockets became increasingly common in arsenals foreign and domestic alike, and sorcerers had learned to strike them down with fire and lightning - though altitude and good piloting could mitigate these threats, fire resistance was increasingly sought by the Siayeo.

Steam balloons began to emerge along with the widespread establishment of steam stations, then created to supply the locomotive and hydrothaumic needs of the Nexus's rapidly evolving transport industry. More powerful than hot air balloons, yet cheaper than hydrogen and helium alike, they were used to survey the weather and cheaply monitor the condition of the waterways by the Siayeo Adepts, to which the steam was readily available. Quickly filled and easily collapsed, they were adopted first for signal balloons, then manned observation balloons of Siayeo navies; by the year 1010 the steam balloon was in regular use by all members of the Nexus on the open water, and in limited fashion as specialist devices for the army.

The advent and proliferation of hydrogenation in the Ineng chemical industry led to investigations of its ignition properties; the relevant apparatus was typically heated through application of steam, which was used also for the suppression of flame. At the time, many had concerns on whether hot steam would be able to suppress a gas-based fire; in an effort to pacify the unions, demonstrations were held of the suppressive effect of steam on hydrogen fires, changing it from a violent explosion to a much safer, upwards-travelling flame - the common wisdom being that with the design of the apparatus, any hydrogen leak would inevitably be contaminated by steam.

The demonstrations captured the notice of the Khifian airship designer Teyem-Aveno of Doessk, recently returned from an aeronautics convention in Maritova. Inspired by the possibilities of rigid frames and their intricate derivative arrangements, she scraped together the personal savings of her team to supplement the contract funding received a year prior for a safer high-lift dirigible, which had provided a generous allotment for securing a helium supply. The resultant nested envelope, with a hydrogen-filled interior cell and steam-filled exterior, was regarded with suspicion by the customer. With some additional convincing, however, the semirigid Doessk DP-3 was ultimately brought into service in the year 1016 - famously surviving a lightning strike while moored near the stormy Pythagorean sea.

Dirigibles at this point faced significant danger from light aircraft, which increasingly matched and, in places, exceeded the altitudes that dirigibles typically operated at. The DP-3 came to the attention of the Khifian military, calling for a demonstration of its resistance to incendiaries - a large tethered hybrid balloon was hit by ten 106mm explosive shells before sluggishly igniting and falling due to loss of buoyancy, greatly impressing the army. New vessels of the Doessk rigid type were commissioned soon afterwards in 1018, concurrent with the adoption of hybrid observation balloons.

Notably, these developments occurred separately from the Shisha steam ballonet and attitude control system of 1020, which would eventually be integrated in the DP-9.MR design of 1033.

-- --