** MT-U7 : Air Cavalry of the QTB **

Capable of flying at high altitudes, the MT-U7 is designed to identify and intercept squadrons of aircraft at long distances using a turreted armament of three heavy machine guns under the nose. The guns are sighted semi-automatically, using a simple ballistic computer and relative elevation angle to place the gunner's reticle; the range is collected via coincidence rangefinding, performed by aligning the target in view of the fore and aft turreted ranging optics. Due to limitations of the airframe geometry, this works best during flanking or overhead intercepts - in direct pursuit, fire is typically handed off to the pilot, who possesses superior discretion of head-on engagements.

The MT-U7 relies heavily on its detection capabilities, provided by day by its ranging optics and high-vision canopy, and in poor or dark conditions by a pair of biased acoustic dishes on either side of the aircraft. These can alert the crew to the presence of enemy aircraft within several kilometres, and with some skill, yield bearing information when the MT-U7 is flown in an arc. In combination with the advanced fire control system, this allows the MT-U7 to surprise enemy aircraft and quickly destroy them in short, decisive contacts.

The motive system of the MT-U7 employs pulse boiler technology; operating at 35 to 60 Hz, each of the four combustion units carefully governs its flow and compression ratio by adjustment of the intake valves and flow ramp. These heat a series of monotube windings, which supply steam to the wing-mounted turbines - their exhaust travels through a series of condensing arrays mounted in and around the wing, regulated by a thermopneumatic valve system to ensure a comfortable temperature for reuse in the variable conditions experienced during operation. The MT-U7's motive system is highly advanced for a contemporary steam plant, and the use of steam turbines enables more efficient slow-cruising on partial throttle even compared to ICEs; together with the more streamlined airframe this gives the MT-U7 impressive endurance and range. Still, it remains far weaker than piston engines at low altitude - this is true of many Siayeo aircraft, necessitating novel practices of fighting in the air.

Heavy, underpowered, and slow to start, the MT-U7 is not doctrinally considered an effective reaction fighter, both in the sense of its vulnerability when landed, and its poor performance when not given time and space to climb and securely position itself. Rather, vulnerable positions are expected to be promptly evacuated and defended with heavy gunfire and redirected patrols - absent reliable intelligence, squadrons rapidly accumulate flight hours, making essential the MT-U7's reliability and ability to rapidly swap out its relatively inexpensive combustors and turbines. Likewise, the ability to burn marginal fuels without damaging complicated machinery is vital to its wartime serviceability. MT-U7s are able to launch from and land on airships, and are vital for naval escort and surveillance; while poor bombers, they provide significant firepower enhancement as self-protecting naval artillery spotters.

The MT-U7 typically deploys on long patrols in loose formation. Most will remain at high altitude, where they can comfortably maintain speed and course; where needed, detections from a low-flying pilot - particularly when relying on acoustic detection - are sent over radio, at which point the group coalesces to either pursue the target or cover the scout(s). Directed/ranged fire is used at distance or against a predictable target, while forward fire is employed at close approach angles and distances. Contact is kept as short as possible, precluding loss of energy that would place a lighter target at advantage. To secure a clean escape, MT-U7 units are expected to operate in opposed pairs, using one another to efficiently range and destroy interceding aircraft. The gunner would be expected to continuously range and lay fire on the targeted aircraft via the turret while coordinating over radio, broadening the aircraft's effective engagement cone, improving energy retention, and reducing the risk of being caught or evaded by a manoeuvring aircraft.