**Uajekals : Siayeo Sea Fortresses**
-- --
The earliest uajekals were the vessels and floating homes of Medic brine farmers, who built pavilions and working decks variously supported by barrels, cork floats, rubber bladders, and reed bundles from which to work the shellfish-strewn sea mats. Over time, seepage and rot would swamp these rafts, and by the 4th century it had become a common convenience and cost-saving measure to raise the decks on lashed pylons. Medic seafarers noted the superior stability of rafts that had become fully submerged, and veteran brine farmers were often skilled in managing waterlogged rafts that could ford unforgiving passages in stormy weather. This was often remarked upon by fascinated visitors, but few considered them as anything more than a regional curiosity.

Uajekals were first catapulted into naval relevance during the conquests of the southwestern Nagsidayan dynasty in the early 500s. Unwilling to face Eiyanixie in the mountains, the Nagsid forces planned a naval invasion of Mediya to the North; taking advantage of the weakened Yeoxli fleet, Queen Nagsid VII planned to cut apart the disorganised Eiyan armies using a series of pincer movements supplied across the sea. This turned out to be disastrous - the heavily-built Nagsid navies were wholly unprepared for the rough waters of the Yunamer Passage, with many vessels being scattered, broken, or overtaken by fast-sailing native raiders. Desperate to recoup their losses, they resorted to appropriating local Medic vessels - built up with heavy timbers and ballistae, these makeshift floating fortresses succeeded in restoring the maritime supply line, swathes of which had become impenetrable to skirmishers. This did not save the campaign from failure, and Eiyanixie would maintain control over Medyan until the fragmenting of Souyan in the 700s; still, news of the uajekals' success spread across the Nexus, where they remained established components of naval warfare for centuries.

Military uajekals were oft treated as field fortifications: quick to establish, tactically immobile, and above all, temporary. Like their Medic ancestors, they were typically left to founder after a short period of active use - large and unwieldy, they seldom benefited from drydocks, and the sweltering climate of Yunamer waters promoted rapid decay. Matters worsened with the emergence of increasingly powerful naval cannon, which strained the carrying capacity of crude barrel floats and timber pylons - not only with armament, but with armor, which became particularly burdensome to compensate the uajekals' immobility in battle. In the late 800s, this was now untenable; a famously scathing report cited the expense of traditional uajekal maintenance to be over twice that of an equally capable fleet, provided sufficient expert crews. Uajekals and their ilk were relegated to the role of disposable floats, built to inflate numbers before being beached as rapid-deployment firing positions in coastal engagements.

In the mid-900s, oil prospectors flocked to the Nexus' western shores to chart the region's tar and asphalt seeps. Drilling expanded rapidly, but most fields proved short-lived - unbeknownst to Siayeo scientists, the same tectonic forces that had exposed the seeps had also enabled biodegradation to strip away lighter hydrocarbons over millions of years. Pockets of light oil were quick to deplete as a result, only barely reaching price parity with costly imported product; when geologists postulated the extension of untapped fields across the Coatan shelf, deep pockets rallied to the prospect of offshore extraction. After two decades of experimentation, Sxinkanga Shapers, a key participant in the Miiet-Salo meteorological project, emerged with a revolutionary design: a thin, contiguous hull supported by hollow pylons braced with hyperbolic bamboo lattices, serving as weatherproof access corridors to large, internally accessible pontoons fabricated from sheet iron. Stable, cost-competitive, and capable of towed speeds in excess of 7 knots, the Sxinkanga vessels proved exceptional in their role; 32 were constructed from 980 to 990 alone, and many architects thereafter replicated the novel form. Time had briefly passed them by, but it would not be long before the return of free-sailing uajekals to military relevance.

The revival of deepwater uajekals did not occur in isolation. The rising burden of guns and armor brought a seeming end to the age of sail; no amount of windjamming would make a fast battleship, but steam propulsion was not yet able to brave the choked Yunamer waters alone. Many considered inevitable the divergence of local and expeditionary design, and the expense it entailed; much was invested into coastal defence networks, in anticipation of shrinking Siayeo naval power. Sxinkanga uajekals, with their impressive stability, endurance, and operational capacity, became lynchpins of the new system: uajekal logistical hubs, listening posts, and minelayers extended the strategic reach of seaborne fortifications well beyond conventional limits, holding together the overstretched fleet. As the then-coined 'steam gap' continued to widen, the worsening coverage of fleet-worthy gunnery drew concern for the survivability of uajekals - by 990, it was common for uajekals to carry light guns and revolving cannon. Not long after, designers began to mount sails and shipworthy propulsion on uajekals, eliminating the need for tugs and demonstrating a heretofore-unknown hydrodynamic efficiency. Common intuition held that a spectacular combination was now within reach; to the Siayeo shipwright, the question was no longer who would dare, but who would be first.

The Miayan frigate UT906 was laid in the spring of 992, destined for operations in the Pythaga Sea. Built to the specifications of Queen Jaiho V's elite maritime patrol, it lay astride three segmented subhulls, each with low-pressure drives, and carried a complement of machine guns, 4 4.2 cm sponson guns, and 4 11 cm guns in twin turrets capable of firing thin-shelled bursting charges to a distance of 13 kilometres. Its turrets lay between two sailing masts, which in good wind could bring the vessel to a respectable 25 knots, 14 knots without engine power. Optimized for superior gunnery in rough seas, it proved instrumental in the deterrence of pirates and raiding vessels from the [war location] coast in the [war in late 99X]. Concerns regarding the design's fragility largely faded after news of a torpedo impact, which had torn open the centre hull while leaving much of the structure and the other two hulls intact; an above-water ammunition store had been ignited by shrapnel, but the crew were able to quickly jettison the magazine into the water below. UT906 was decommissioned as a result, but it had earned the widespread acceptance of Sxinkanga-type uajekas as warships in the Nexus.




