Utwelanjaen Qayan, 225 BC - 108 AC

-- --

The eastern shores of Touma are host to many gods, and many ghosts. From temples of fused stone to towering bronze columns, their murals depict a dazzling array of cultures rising, reaching their zenith, and then scrawling over their works with laments and curses before disappearing altogether - and each time, the forest shifts. Though speculation still abounds, it is thought that these catastrophes, coincidences of cold snaps, heavy rains, and mysterious plagues, are hastened by the catastrophic emergences or recurrences of entities indigenous to the wetlands of the northern archipelago. These crises soon pass - Toumay spined creepers are thought to have contributed to the famines that shattered the ancient Maden culture, but today they are common weeds, and their immature pods a delicacy.

Utwelanjaen Qayan arose amidst a fourfold crisis of heavy rains, cold snaps, razorworm plagues, and waterborne diseases. It began, as many did, in the Northeast: crops began to die en masse, sickness choked the cities, and when silver failed to sustain the granaries, ruin settled in the wake of armies bereft a home to ground them. The tribes of Wajma and Noyi, once great kingdoms, came south of the Hangsha in tents and tatters - in the west, the Leiak disintegrated, their bonds shattered with the balance of power they depended upon. In the east, the Uling and the Dalheyod broke upon the fortresses of great Jia, but levies and taxes burdened their lands, and its generals were emboldened to rebel against the emperor. Next, it seemed, was Sandan and its young prince - barely fit to be crowned at twenty-six years, it fell to the regent to ensure the kingdom's survival. Those greater had failed, and Sandan was weak; the regent was quick to look outwards, calling a summit between the ten reigning crowns. Seven received the news, six could spare the escorts; with half the table empty, the regent, two kings, a tailor, and a rebel general convened in the temple of Mava, west of present-day Anggayan. 

Soon after arrival, the five attendants struck a pact of non-aggression as a show of good faith. Yet three days in, meaningful proceedings had yet to begin: the destitute kings of Wajma and Noyi sought the restoration of their lands, the general was merely there to legitimise Northern Jia, the regent of Sandan insisted on subordinating the five banners, and all had disregarded the tailor from Shisha, a seeming insult from the still-prosperous southern state. Yet the tailor, an influential figure well-versed in the Hundred Histories through the patronage of Shisha's temples, did recall the parables of struggles ages past, dramatised though they might have been. It was such knowledge, and perhaps her experience at the counter, that led her to suggest the fortification of the Hangsha: the feat, she told, of the ancient state of Ya, who held dominion of the waters and secured peace in the South before their betrayal by the greedy river god, who flooded the banks and called upon the mountain tribes to spill fresh blood. Though transparent in its communication of Shisha's desires, it was also at once warning, compromise, and promise enough to sway hearts and heads alike - on the fourth day, the delegations came together to discuss the future in earnest. 

-- --

 The Treaty of the Hangsha, writ and witnessed on the fortieth day of deluge in 225 BC, declared all lands north of the Hangsha for the newly joined kingdom of Wajma and Noyi, to which would be pledged the support of Shisha, Sandan, and Northern Jia. Northern Jia, in return for their support, would be promised most of the lands of Jia, and two armies each of Shisha and Sheja to support them. None felt the deal truly equal, least of all the newly established Yiwa - but with so much to gain, neither did they protest. Forty sacred pillars were raised atop Hetang mountain, witnesses to the pact of Utwelanjaen Qayan; omen-bound to keep to their promises, the delegations returned to their respective capitals beneath a new, collective banner.

The early days of Utwelanjaen Qayan saw coalition armies march across the region securing the roads against banditry and raiding tribes, establishing outposts with kites and signal lanterns to warn the battered villages and muster relief forces. The navies of the Hangsha, unified for the first time in centuries, emerged victorious over dynastic Jia forces guarding the mouth of the Hangsha at Truigang city in 220 BC; bolstered by the surrendering vessels and joined by the powerful Shisha navy, the Utwelanjaen forces achieved incredible feats of battle and logistics. Suochrosin, fortress-capital of the Leiak warlord Wajanpi, oversaw a treacherous mountain crossing and was famed for its impenetrable defences. From 208 to 200 BC, Utwelanjaen forces laid siege to the city, ultimately constructing a dam downstream of the tributary that watered its defenders - when the waters rose high enough to traverse by ship, Utwelanjaen fire spouts sailed up to the walls from the Hangsha and set the garrison aflame.

The conditions that formed Utwelanjaen Qayan did not last forever. By 200 BC, southeastern Touma faced few external threats, and internal disputes had already erupted between and within its once-desperate member states. Northern Jia, frustrated by the continued survival of Southern Jia - which had arranged for peace with Shisha decades prior - and the transfer of its northern claims to Yiwa, saw the rise of rogue elements in the north, the replacement of its leadership by a coup, and their slaughter in turn by forces of the loyalist Lai family, championing a puppet general as the true king of Jia. Yiwa, now a vast dominion of mostly devastated lands, grew resentful of an increasingly prosperous south - their chance at wealth had been stolen by Shisha and Sandan, who claimed the northern Leiak lands by rearbitrating the branches of the Hangsha and its tributaries. King Nhoe of Sandan grew up jealous and paranoid of his regent, who had accrued great fame and grew close with the nobility of Shisha, who had acquired many exclusive rights within the kingdom. Frustrated by rising corruption and shows of disrespect from his own nobles, he began to collect forces from posts in the north, the west, and crucially, the stalling front against Southern Jia in preparation for civil war, in direct violation of the sacred Utwelanjaen Qayan.

An unnatural earthquake struck the capital of Sandan in 191 BC, levelling buildings, breaking the canals and igniting fires that killed tens of thousands, the aging regent among their number. With the capital in shambles, news reached the ears of the Lai family and its spies before the ministers could contact the king, who had left on a hunting trip two days prior. With no knowledge of the calamity, King Nhoe was delivered condolences for the burning of his home - suspecting an assassination attempt, he mobilised the royal guard and ordered the arrest and trial of all members of the inner court upon his return to the capital, barely hesitating at the destruction throughout the city. Those who resisted were beaten, and foreign delegations were barred from leaving the city; in the chaos, one of the princes of Yiwayan broke his head on stairs while attempting to shield a minister. Nhoe was quick to place the blame on foreign-backed traitorous elements, but few took his words at face value; Shisha denied blame, Jia saw little point in 


