**Utwelanjaen Qayan, 225 BC - 108 AC**

-- --

The eastern shores of Touma are host to many gods, and many ghosts. From temples of fused stone to towering bronze columns, their murals depict a dazzling array of cultures rising, reaching their zenith, and then scrawling over their works with laments and curses before disappearing altogether - and each time, the forest shifts. Though speculation still abounds, it is thought that these catastrophes, coincidences of cold snaps, heavy rains, and mysterious plagues, are hastened by the catastrophic emergences or recurrences of entities indigenous to the wetlands of the northern archipelago. These crises soon pass - Toumay spined creepers are thought to have contributed to the famines that ruined ancient Maden, but today they are common weeds, and their immature pods a delicacy.

Utwelanjaen Qayan arose amidst a fourfold crisis of heavy rains, cold snaps, razorworm plagues, and waterborne diseases. It began, as many did, in the Northeast: crops began to die en masse, sickness choked the cities, and when silver failed to sustain the granaries, ruin settled in the wake of armies bereft a home to ground them. The tribes of Wajma and Noyi, once great kingdoms, came south of the Hangsha in tents and tatters - in the west, the Leiak disintegrated, their bonds shattered with the balance of power they depended upon. In the east, the Uyling and the Dalheyod broke upon the fortresses of Jia, but levies and taxes had depleted their lands, and its generals were emboldened to rebel against the emperor. Next, it seemed, was Sandan and its infant prince Nhoe - with the prince unfit to bear the crown, it fell to the regent to ensure the kingdom's survival. Greater had failed, and Sandan was weak; the regent was quick to look outwards, calling a summit between the ten reigning crowns. Seven received the news, six could spare the escorts; with half the table empty, the regent, two kings, a tailor, and a rebel general convened in the temple of Mava, west of present-day Anggayan.  

Soon after arrival, the five attendants struck a pact of non-aggression as a show of good faith. Yet three days in, meaningful proceedings had yet to begin: the destitute kings of Wajma and Noyi sought the restoration of their lands, the general was merely there to legitimise Northern Jia, the regent of Sandan insisted on subordinating the five banners, and all had disregarded the tailor from Shisha, a seeming insult from the still-prosperous southern state. Yet the tailor, an influential figure well-versed in the Hundred Histories through the patronage of Shisha's temples, did recall the parables of struggles ages past, dramatised though they might have been. It was such knowledge, and perhaps her experience at the counter, that led her to suggest the fortification of the Hangsha: the feat, she told, of the ancient state of Ya, who held dominion of the waters and secured peace in the South before their betrayal by the greedy river god, who flooded the banks and called upon the mountain tribes to spill fresh blood. Though transparent in its communication of Shisha's desires, it was also at once warning, compromise, and promise enough to sway hearts and heads alike - on the fourth day, the delegations came together to discuss the future in earnest. 

-- --

The Treaty of the Hangsha, writ and witnessed on the fortieth day of the wet season in 225 BC, declared all lands north of the Hangsha for the newly joined kingdom of Wajma and Noyi, to which would be pledged the support of Shisha, Sandan, and Northern Jia. Northern Jia, in return for their support, would be promised most of the lands of Jia, and two armies each of Shisha and Sheja to support them. None felt the deal truly equal, least of all the newly established Yiwa - but with so much to gain, neither did they protest. Forty sacred pillars were raised atop Hetang mountain, witnesses to the pact of Utwelanjaen Qayan; omen-bound to keep to their promises, the delegations returned to their respective capitals beneath a new, collective banner.

The early days of Utwelanjaen Qayan saw coalition armies march across the region securing the roads against banditry and raiding tribes, establishing outposts with kites and signal lanterns to warn the battered villages and muster relief forces. The navies of the Hangsha, unified for the first time in centuries, emerged victorious over dynastic Jia forces guarding the mouth of the Hangsha at Truigang city in 220 BC; bolstered by the surrendering vessels and joined by the powerful Shisha navy, the Utwelanjaen forces achieved incredible feats of battle and logistics. Suochrosin, fortress-capital of the Leiak warlord Wajanpi, oversaw a treacherous mountain crossing and was famed for its impenetrable position. From 208 to 200 BC, Utwelanjaen forces laid siege to the city, constructing a dam downstream of the tributary that watered its defenders - when the waters rose high enough to traverse by ship, Utwelanjaen fire spouts sailed up to the walls from the Hangsha and set the garrison aflame.

The conditions that formed Utwelanjaen Qayan did not last forever. By 190 BC, southeastern Touma faced few external threats, and disputes began to fester among its once-desperate member states. Northern Jia, frustrated by the continued survival of Southern Jia - which had arranged for peace with Shisha decades prior - and the transfer of its northern claims to Yiwa, saw the rise of rogue elements in the north, the replacement of its leadership by a coup, and their slaughter in turn by forces of the loyalist Lai family, championing the puppet general Lyhemi as the true king of Jia. Yiwa, now a vast dominion of mostly devastated lands, grew resentful of an increasingly prosperous south - their chance at wealth had been stolen by Shisha and Sandan, who claimed the northern Leiak lands by rearbitrating the branches of the Hangsha and its tributaries. King Nhoe of Sandan grew up jealous and paranoid of his regent, who had accrued great fame and grew close with the nobility of Shisha, who had acquired many exclusive rights within the kingdom. Frustrated by rising corruption and shows of disrespect from his own nobles, he began to collect forces from posts in the north, the west, and crucially, the stalling front against Southern Jia in anticipation of a coup, directly violating the sacred promises of the Utwelanjaen Qayan.

An unnatural earthquake struck the Sandan capital of Bala Gur in 181 BC, levelling buildings, severing canals, and lighting fires that killed tens of thousands, the aging regent among their number. With the court in shambles, news had reached the ears of the Lai family and its spies before the ministers could reach the king, who had left on a hunting trip two days prior. Unknowing of the calamity, King Nhoe was delivered condolences for the burning of his home - suspecting an assassination attempt, he mobilised the royal guard and ordered the arrest and trial of all members of the inner court upon his return to the capital, barely hesitating at the destruction throughout the city. Those who resisted were beaten, and foreign delegations were barred from leaving the city; in the chaos, one of the princes of Yiwa broke his head on stairs while attempting to shield a minister. Nhoe was quick to place the blame on foreign-backed traitorous elements, but few took his words at face value; Shisha denied blame, Jia held little sympathy following the military withdrawal, and the kings of Yiwa were rightfully apoplectic. Reparations were demanded in the form of gold and territory - had King Nhoe been in possession of some measure of humility and fortune, negotiation might have remained on the table. Yet King Nhoe was not one to back down so early in his reign, and the Northern territories demanded consisted much of his existing powerbase. On the ninth day of Withering, 180 BC, three armies set out from Bala Gur to the banks of the Hangsha.

In shallow waters of former Leiak territory, the Sandan navy sank vessels full of earth and erected wooden fortresses atop them, blockading the Hangsha and providing supplies and safe passage to the crossing army. When the Yiwa-allied forces of Northern Jia arrived, they were quickly repulsed by incendiary artillery; over land, their scouts suffered setbacks at every step in the thick jungle of the inner continent. Yiwa itself had yet to recall its forces from the northern frontier, allowing Sandan forces to sweep over the river fortresses and secure many of the hills north of the Hangsha. The generals of Shisha, though bound to honor the Utwelanjaen Qayan, superstitiously refused to cross the borders of Sandan bearing violence, trickling ineffectively by sea into Yiwa lands. By 175 BC, the Sandan state had nearly doubled in size, and so had its treasury - much of the wealth of Yiwa had accumulated in southern lands. With Yiwa suddenly in shambles, Shisha hampered, and Northern Jia now embroiled in two separate wars, the future once again appeared uncertain. The Lai family, already disfavoured by its failure to conquer the South, was overtaken from within by a radical faction that sought to end the conflict that had consumed Jia for over a century.

In 172 BC, the puppet general Lyhemi was found guilty of treason, and executed publicly in the Northern Jia capital of Angga. Members of the Seven Spokes faction and its head, hegemon Nanhxja of the Lai family, established a new, council-led government untethered to the dynastic tradition of Jia - according to Nanhxja, the remaining Jia, driven into swamps and reduced to little more than a tribal coalition bound by a common enemy, could offer neither dignity nor legitimacy in defeat. (Fun fact: as the effective successor state, the Southern Jia have been periodically stricken by natural disasters after inheriting the Utwelanjaen Qayan.) Working first to consolidating his power in the North, Nanhxja held off until 171 BC to recall the newly Anggay armies from the southern front. In 170 BC, peace was settled with Southern Jia - and there being but one Jia, the Jia obligations of the Utwelanjaen Qayan were fulfilled, freeing two armies of Shisha to fight in the lands of Yiwa. With the entry of ten seasoned armies into the war, the overstretched forces of Sandan were inevitably beaten back; with the arrival of three foreign armies at the gates of Bala Gur, King Nhoe slit his own throat in 165 BC with no designated successor.

With the war's end, Shisha, Yiwa, and Angga partitioned the former Sandan territories. When the war began, most had expected an ultimate return to the status quo - but with the end of Sandan, and so many a violated oath, renegotiation of the Utwelanjaen Qayan was sorely needed. It was largely agreed that whatever retribution had been enacted upon Sandan by the divine witnesses had been to the detriment of all - and many of its promises were now either irrelevant or actively harmful, having been forged in desperation over half a century prior. From this point on, the Utwelanjaen Qayan was but a simple defensive pact; of the forty sacred pillars atop Hetang mountain, thirty-six were uprooted, leaving the witnesses of four knowledge spirits.

-- --

By 21 BC, the Utwelanjaen Qayan had lost most of its power. Though still respected as a neutral forum for the states of eastern Touma, aid was no longer guaranteed, and small, petty wars had been fought amongst its members with to little consequence. When the distant state of Urwe warred with Shisha over tributary affairs, the navies of Yiwa and Angga remained dry in their docks; though the conflict rapidly escalated, the few raiding parties that had broken their rafts on Touman soil were not considered reason enough to invoke the ancient treaty. Fighting continued on and across the sea, and tens of thousands would sink to watery graves - but the rival powers of Qayan saw this only as a benefit, as the struggle drew Shisha's attention away ambitions closer to home. Moreover, Shisha, with so much of its wealth dependent on trade, saw its income dwindle with the intensification of privateering and piracy - vulnerable and underfunded, despite settling peace with Urwe in 8 BC, nearly all of its inland citadels had been taken by Yiwa and Angga in skirmishes by 20 AD.

Only in 22 AD, with the sudden invasion of the Yeoxli Empire from the south, was the Utwelanjaen Qayan invoked to any effect - in a rare moment of unity, a coalition fleet was raised to secure dominance over the Yunamer Passage. Yet neither Yiwa nor Angga had much experience with seagoing navies, and the Shisha navy was a shadow of what it had been a century prior; the Qayan fleet was quickly scattered, and Yeoxli armies would land ashore of Shisha in 24 AD and secure a bulkhead from which to continue their campaign. Shisha, lacking inland territories to retreat to, ultimately submitted to Yeoxli rule in 85 AC - war against the Yeoxli would continue for ten more years, but neither Yeoxli nor the Qayan states would be able to break the stalemate that had arisen in the mountains and wetlands. The Utwelanjaen Qayan was formally dissolved in 108 AC, over two centuries after its effective disintegration.