**M-D Fluid Automatic Rifle : An Unrequested Solution**

The concept of a liquid-propellant weapon began collecting attention since the mid-900s, spawned from the discovery of liquid oxygen and fuel-oil explosives. Ripple cannons were among the earliest and most successful efforts - but in roles beyond the sacred oversight of the Great Tree, many still considered fluid propulsion to be largely infeasible. Thus, when the Eiyan army held trials for a universal repeating rifle in 1020, the arrival of the Moa-Dzichnu Fluid Automatic Rifle was wholly unexpected: weighing no more than 5.1 kilograms dry, the weapon could fire 20,000 rounds from either a side-fitted magazine or a continuous belt at up to 240 rounds per minute with 1088 misfires, 402 requiring manual cycling, and 19 necessitating manual clearing of the chamber. By the ruling of the attending Adepts, 830 were attributed to user unfamiliarity, allowing the M-D rifle to just barely pass the trials where all other self-loading rifles had thus far failed; though ultimately turned down for the cheaper and more reliable falling-block Jzemka rifle, the M-D rifle would still be bought in sufficient quantity to play a role in the Mediyan Intervention soon to come.

Each firing of the M-D rifle compresses the weakly-sprung gas piston to charge an internal pneumatic reservoir, from which heat must be dissipated due to adiabatic compression. When the reservoir reaches a threshold pressure, the breech lock is disengaged, causing a reciprocating mechanism to push the barrel forwards, feed a bullet, prime the propellant injector, and re-lock the barrel onto the fixed breech. Cold, expanded air is exhausted through the propellant feeds and into the barrel, cooling the fluid system and clearing residue; this limits corrosion, and suppresses autoignition of the chamber propellant mixture of 2.5 grams nitromethane and 1 gram 68% perchloric acid until both injection valves close and the firing pin contacts the sparker.

usage : The M-D rifle achieves passable accuracy using single fire to a range of 500 metres, but possesses a strong, 'jumpy' felt recoil that somewhat mitigates the benefit of its negligible muzzle rise. This is both compensated and accentuated by the short stroke of the M-D reciprocating action used for rounds without propellant or casing. M-D rifle propellant is compact, shelf-stable, remains liquid at low temperature (~-18 C), and can easily be assessed by checking the corrosion state of the inspection plug. Sustained fire can quickly overheat the barrel despite the chilled ventilation, and the pneumatic intake is subject to fouling by mud and grit if not adequately covered; barring these conditions, however, an M-D rifle can function for a very long time without degradation. 