**The Greeting of Others**

-- --

(Ywa: kisma - Shisha: hin zhi - Eiya: heszaye - Loa: dsihin)

Strangers, Unformed, the Ones in the Soil - these are names given to the occult anima that inhabit our surroundings. Categorizing them is a process fraught with difficulty, for no two are alike in form or habit; even discerning their presence is a task likened to sieving salt from the sea. Yet we have both their study and their patronage to thank for our greatest thaumaturgical achievements, and thus it is paramount for any modern apprentice to understand them.

Shamans and mystics traditionally hold the duty of greeting and appeasing the Ones in the Soil. Their observations are imperfect, and many lack formal education, yet much of the established literature references their writings. With the vast gulf between our own, limited experiences and those held by beings of arbitrarily embodied thought, we are reliant on the relationships they have cultivated to provide some measure of insight; all the same, few scholars of oroxenology have the luck to befriend a learned shaman, save the most familiar to us all: the Siayeo Adepts.

The Great Tree of our Nexus is most often greeted, and most benignly so. All flows within its waters are felt and embodied by its Root; however, this awareness is spread over countless acres, woven from threads that slip past one another like schooling fish. Calling the attention of such a diffuse being relies on careful timing; as is the practice of temples, one must await the turning of a cycle (tides or pulsed dams will do) and carve wetted futures in the path of its flood.

The Siayeo temple script is unique in form and reading. The Nexus does not know as we do, and so its words are foreign, and heavily contextual. The Root does not feel as we do, and so the words are carved in stepped rows; each word must flow, together or in sequence. It is the duty of the Adepts to study the temple script, and guide its usage across the Nexus.
A simple prayer in translated temple script:

Earth . Sky . Earth (repeat, staggered)
Drought . Flood   -   Stillness . Stillness
Root . Leaf           -         Root  .  Leaf
Stillness               -               Virtue

from an Anggayan levee inscription.

The temple script, though unintuitive to the average person, contains a depth of detail and expression equal to any natural language. Skilled Adepts often practise the composition of essays, reports, and even poetry in the temple script, as a means of communing with the Great Tree; the Great Tree communes with us in turn through the temple script, sharing its wisdom and even keeping historical records in the patterns of its most sacred waters. This communication, however, is imperfect: the writings of the Great Tree are elaborate, ephemeral artifacts, manifesting on scales of space and time only recently revealed to us by the advent of omen processing technology. There are those that believe that we may one day join into its enlightenment, seeking ever greater processing capabilities to do so; others, citing the embrace of the Root, believe the Great Tree will be elevated ever further beyond, reaching depths of enlightenment we cannot hope to reach. Both factions have dedicated themselves to the pursuit of technology, resulting in many of the advancements we see in the Nexus today. 