**CM.TB102 : Cabora-Meix Transoceanic Warplane 102**
-- --
The CM.TB102 was developed by the Cabora-Meix Aeronautics Company in fulfillment of a 1034 QTPY Aerial Reserve contract for a transoceanic combat-capable airframe. With the rapid obsolescence of the Sx.TB99 bomber and TB993 dirigibles in the face of powerful single-seat monoplane fighters, there was an urgent need for new strategic aircraft. Citing the high survival rates of the high-flying, but otherwise unremarkable NT-GS used in aerial torpedo barrages, many in the QTPY promulgated the use of unarmed bombers, easily adapted from high-performance civilian aircraft. Cabora-Meix would present its four-engine mail carrier in late 1035, boasting an impressive speed of 480 kph at 10,000 metres - in 1036, however changes to the specification forced a complete redesign: as the Navarin Civil War approached its conclusion, Eiyan military planners began demanding mass precision air strikes beyond practical stream cannon and aerial torpedo range to fully sever logistics in a Navarin outbreak scenario. The lower altitudes required for accurate conventional bombing brought TB102s back into range of enemy fighters, necessitating the inclusion of defensive armament. Cabora-Meix would handle this increase in weight in radical fashion: rather than compromise on payload, comfort, or structural integrity, the CM.TB102 would instead pack all of its propulsive power into a single ultra-compact nacelle.

-- CM.TB102 specifications | TB102 contract specifications --
Maximum speed:  560 kph    |  500 kph
Cruise speed:   480 kph    |  400 kph
Range:          3650 km    |  4000 km
Ferry range:    6850 km    |  7500 km
Service ceiling:13500 m    |  14000 m
Rate of climb:  4.9 m/s    |  6 m/s
Payload:        2000 kg    |  2000 kg
Dry weight:    16500 kg

The CM.TB102 is a large, asymmetric stressed-skin aluminium aircraft with two propeller-turbine assemblies mounted in a counterrotating push-pull configuration on a single nacelle with an air-entrapping condenser shroud. Each turbine assembly receives pressure through a pair of switchable steam pipes, fed in turn by a 12-unit asynchronous pulse combustion boiler on the right side of the fuselage. Each exhaust can be steered up to 25 degrees horizontally, either by manual trim or with aid of the automatic flight assistant; this helps to compensate the dynamic asymmetries of the aircraft, as well as a measure of fine control in poor aerodynamic conditions. Together with rudder and roll control, the assistant provide substantial aid to difficult landings, crew endurance, and bombing accuracy. Overall, the propulsion and trim system of the TB102 is well-regarded as being easy to maintain and operate, with admirable performance across the board. With few moving parts, minimal vibration fatigue, good thermal efficiency, and a consistent speed-altitude-power profile, CM.TB102s are known for racking up flight hours with little complaint - although the uniqueness of their construction makes extensive repairs complicated to undertake, as observed in the quip: "Take a 102 to bed, kick nine 993s from the shed."

The TB102 is fitted with two retractable heavy turrets above and below the fuselage, each fitted with either a 40mm 80 rpm cannon with fuzed fragmentation shells or a steam-driven rotary cannon capable of firing 11mm liquid-propellant munitions at 4500 rounds per minute. These can be manually directed using an adjacent periscope pair, or coupled to an fluidic-electromechanical fire control system which automatically leads and locks the target using a powerful infrared spotlight: when manually directed to illuminate a target, wingtip-mounted photodetector gimbals tracing the beam line provide target bearing and coincidence ranging. Using this system, a single gunner can acquire and engage a maneuvering aircraft at 800 metres in less than three seconds. Only one gimbal-spotlight pair is required to extract the necessary information, allowing the system to track two aircraft simultaneously with each turret.
