..
*From Irden to Gasan - Last of the Northern Suns*
..

The kingdom of Irden was formed in the mid-400s under the banner of the former Sazanganen general Mezinunwura, contemporaneous with the Miayan kingdom under the Yiwa-backed Ayema Dynasty. For centuries, it fought bitterly with both Miayan and the rising Nanask Empire for control over Dogatay - but for a brief period in the mid-700s, all three factions fought together in the alliance against the Tiaremed Revolution sweeping across Northern Toüma. Their pyrrhic victory in Toüma was not enough to counter the defeat of the remnant Dogatay Nanaskites by Tiaramed forces, and the Crimson Rains would end in stalemate; decades of unprecedentedly horrific warfare precipitated a series of ruinous economic and social crises that would break Yiwayan power, isolate the Miayan colonies, and shatter Irden itself in a civil war. Yet the powers that be were possessed of a limited tolerance for chaos, even for their nominal rivals; Yiwayan instability would culminate in the establishment of the QTB, and the emergent Takke Dynasty and the Tiaremed-aligned Nuenkesarilit League would sign an uneasy peace in 854 in the Shisha city of Hoeisha under threat of a Miayan military intervention.

With the end of the war, The Nuenkesarilit League began to show its cracks: rival clans rekindled old hostilities, militias engaged in uneasy standoffs, and talks for a common government turned to factional squabbling, ushering in a troubled fractionary period that would last from 858 to 890. While provisionary republican governments would emerge in various cities, few succeeded in expanding their spheres of influence; all the while, the fragile political balance was continuously strained by the import and mobilisation of foreign mercenary armies, ostensibly for internal security and nominally justified as reserves for another war with Takke Irdenia. Members of the former Nuenkesarilit League were further divided by a dizzying array of allegiances and ideologies influenced by the refugees and radicals of 850s Yiwayan - while Oän in the west established a stable, Yineng-backed republic, the emergent Gasan state of the early 900s suffered a series of coups and violent takeovers in 912, 913, 920, 923, and 924 before consolidating under the dictatorial governance of Banbengsam the Leatherworker in 949.

Relations between Takke Irdenia and Banbengsam's Gasan were far from friendly. Both states had irredentist ambitions, and the latter had not forgotten the Irdenian efforts of destabilizing its southern rival. Despite this, the two continued to maintain peace at the border, primarily out of fear of the vast powers suddenly coalescing around them in the form of the Maritovan Federation, the QTB, and the CNIN: just as it was in Banbengsam's interest to focus on quelling internal dissent and cracking down on foreign influence, it was in Irdenia's interest to maintain a buffer state between it and the rapidly strengthening Siayeo Nexus. Unlike the Takke Dynasty, however, Banbengsam held no claim to continuity; even as a sudden dementia began to claim his faculties, he could still see that his successors would come only from the ranks of traitors. Banbengsam died in his bed in the spring of 979, two days before he was shot for his crimes against the people.

The Mourning Day Revolution was the product of careful planning at the highest levels of government, the rapidity of its takeover expedited by the systematic execution of Banbengsami loyalists alongside various publicly reviled figures. Unlike many that had come before, the council was successful in both the appropriate preparation of a civilian government and its actual execution, forming provisional assemblies, establishing bureaucratic and civil commitments, and distributing tens of thousands of copies of the new constitution across the country within hours of securing the capital - measures that tragically proved necessary when Irdenian troops were spotted crossing the border the day of the takeover. Aided by the extensive telegraph networks established under the Banbengsami regime, militia forces arrayed themselves in ambushes along the road to the capital, granting precious time to prepare for the oncoming siege; Sarengcati would be cut off from the outside world for four weeks, losing over seventeen thousand citizens to waterborne disease before the Irdenian force was forced to retreat by the slowly-mobilizing Gasan regular army.

Irdenian fears of an independent, Nexus-aligned Gasan became self-fulfilling in the days after their failed invasion, and Gasan would become a signatory of the Yunamer Passage Agreement in the summer of 979. Yet against their expectations, a Gasani retaliation would fail to materialize - the chaos of the invasion had succeeded in temporarily paralyzing the Gasan government with factional disagreements, and what little momentum remained was quashed when Gasani proposals for Nexus assistance were denied by Miayan, who saw Irden itself as a barrier against Maritovan and CNIN influence that they could not afford to destabilize. Gasan would ultimately turn its focus to developing its lagging economy, reaping the benefits of the new trade routes emerging across the Pytha Sea.

...




