Bits & bobs : Siayeo Dress
-- ref --
⁠nostra-forum⁠Siayeo Nexus
⁠nostra-forum⁠Siayeo Nexus
-- --
Soumkaja : Originally a wetted scarf worn by Nanask miners to ease the sting of volcanic gases, they spread across Northern and central Touma during the Blackleaf Marches of the mid-700s as a ward against poison smoke and corpse tactics. In the aftermath of the war, officers coming home to decaying cities would retain the habit, scenting them with herbs and perfumes to stave off the stench of algae-clogged canals and underfunded sewers. Stiff, impermeable variants were commissioned by the short-lived Lensless Movement in Yiwayan, in protest of the nobility's growing insulation from the problems of the people - these were minimally decorated, instead communicating intent via the particular cut, shaping, and weave. This variant would become popularised by politicians and organisers in the Touman and Yin regions, while the softer variant remained common among Miay nobility.

Qayan clothing: The heat of the southeastern Toumay climate is perhaps best represented by the prevalence of 'sleeve-wear' -  the absence of any cloth on the torso - but this is typically for the indoors or idyllic outdoor conditions, unmolested by the clouds of flies, floating burrs and aerosolized thorns spawned from its bristling jungles. The stiff vests and loose, sheer layers of Toumay clothing are created with the intent of deflecting such inclement weather, all while being breathable, preventing chafing, and allowing easy removal of debris; alternative styles adopted by Toumay peoples either continued the pattern, often being openable at the front, or veered towards the opposite extreme, as with body gloves fully enclosed in the Navarin style. Notably, Shisha fabrics were historically prized across the Nexus for their resistance to humidity and extraordinarily fine texture. 

The Yeoxli imperial style, with its rectangular cuts and vivid symbology, was preserved in large part by the Siayeo Adepts, who absorbed many of the civil departmental fashions after the fall of the empire. Warlords of the post-Yeoxli era frequently incorporated Siayeo advisors, and looked to them for the mantle of Yeoxli imperial legitimacy - most extensively in the old imperial capital of Eiyanixie, whose conquerors ultimately incorporated themselves into the Siayeo hierarchy outright. As a result, nations across the former Yeoxli domain, from Mediyam to dynastic Lhoayan, share a style of dress - albeit through the lens of Siayeo interpretation, which has seen the adoption of the waterproof mantle, more abstract, temple script-adjacent symbology, and the replacement of soft headpieces with protective headgear. Such changes have been partially undone by natural preference and a desire to maintain a distinct influence, but an official's hard kepi and greatcloak are still considered evolutions of Siayeo preferences, not imperial ones. Perhaps due to its political continuity, the Urwe style of official dress remains most faithful to actual Yeoxli practice, despite historically having been the most culturally independent of the imperial jewels.
