--


**Viscotronics and the Modern Hydromaton**
-- --

At the beginning of the 9th century, rapid advances in manufacturing quality and the understanding of fluids led mechanical engineers and spirit architects to create the first [brass effigies], constructs incorporating some of the most sophisticated temple scripts in the regions of the Lotus Sect. These early constructs lacked the power to do much more than carry the spirits that inhabited them, more ceremonial than effectual; however, this alone was enough to satisfy the temples, who sought little more than to open the world's beauty to the eyes of the dead. Though brass effigies have ultimately changed little since their popular zenith in the 940s, they served as crucial testbeds for the development of advanced control and actuation technologies used in the modern hydromaton.

The modern hydromaton performs the tasks of movement, manipulation, and navigation across terrain in ways not immediately apparent to a naive operator. Though practical use demands the presence of a pilot and their guiding eye, this alone is not enough; just as we do not consciously think to balance every part of ourselves individually when we stumble, the hydromaton must smoothly incorporate into each possible position the complexities of its balance, momentum, and some means to ensure the integrity of its mechanisms. Rationally, these states can be solved to completion via the expertise of accomplished engineers who have since antiquity dealt with such problems as the moving crane and the rolling cart. Unlike such systems, however, the hydromaton's many possible configurations makes the problem of its stability nontrivial and irreducible in any practical circumstance. The expectation of a single pilot to retrieve and synthesize all the involved variables from their own six senses is not completely indefensible, but limited firstly by exhaustion, and secondly by the cost and bodily harm of the failures accrued in training.

Regarding the control problem, the work of twenty years ago (1010-1019) has proven of considerable worth : from valveless fluid integrators to gyroscopic bubble and float instruments, the seemingly intractible problem of converting the configuration of a complex, vibrating, and decaying machine to controllable movement has been so completely solved as to find common use in naval and aerial navigation today. Yet while the problem of control had been addressed in principle, the force, speed, and shock with which our own legs must constantly contend is at odds with the relative mechanical fragility and complexity of even valveless control systems.

The writings of the temple gardener Alinh-Bosnja on the Great Tree's manipulations of viscosity first revealed in 1002 the principle by which brass effigies could achieve their lifelike motion. While largely unknown for almost a decade, the cross-disciplinary acoustic studies undertaken by Yegorum Technical Institute uncovered her work and briefly experimented with its use to the purpose of breaking up vibrations; this led to the development of the electrodamped piston in 1018, and the formal expression of controllable viscosity with regard to its use in fluidyne control systems by the Netje Science Academy in western Shisha. Though the latter now is gathering interest as a potential pathway to emulating the mind of the Great Tree, the immediate use of the former was clear - by integrating command of impedance and impulse into a single component, even early viscotronic mechanisms could provide unprecedented, fast-reacting variable damping to jointed machines, allowing hydromata to grow from hundreds of kilograms to several tonnes without risking damage. More recent variants have even incorporated basic differential mechanisms, key to the high speed and long range of modern hydromata - many of which are able to outpace a runner at full throttle over flat ground.

Though less acknowledged, it must be clarified that none of this would have become possible without the anatomical expertise of its many doctors and biologists, foremost among them those few who have had the luck to discuss with a member of the enigmatic Navarin culture during its time of crisis. It is due to them that we know in such systematic detail what parts without which a walking machine must fail, and what gait is naturally adopted - and shared with us - by creatures that are unlike natural beings, despite having far lesser experience in the theoretical disciplines of the material sciences. Needless to say, however, the secrets of life remain theirs alone to exploit, and the effortless movements of nature can only be emulated by hydromata where the Great Tree and its aspects deign to inhabit our works.

refs :
The Viscosity of Polarized Dielectrics (Duff, 1896) https://journals.aps.org/pri/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevSeriesI.4.23
Development of Novel Hydraulic 3D Printed Actuator Using Electrorheological Fluid for Robotic Endoscopy (Sadi et al. 2024) https://www.mdpi.com/2076-0825/13/4/119
Electrorheological Damper https://www.researchgate.net/figure/A-schematic-diagram-of-the-ER-damper_fig1_230994486


[ARTREFERENCE : Transitional Hydromaton, Brass Effigy era]
Khaxanqa.png

