**History : The Gasan Unification War / Operation Iron Road, 996-1000**

Troops coming from : Kasovat + Seret
++ : Thymera

985 nonaggression pact

Ferrum is antimonarchist in this period, likely has ideological reasons to support operation iron road. 

In 994, skirmishes begin breaking out between Takke and Gasa irregulars both at sea and along the mountain border, in an escalation of territorial disputes fuelled by the discovery of several guano islands and arsenic-free zinc mines - the exploitation of which is carried out by forced labour from the khoggee population of Irden. Emancipation raids are planned by Gasa generals, but are put on hold due to fears of Nyayanese intervention and the instability of the post-Banbengsam regime. An offer for help comes from Ferrum after hearing of the recent troubles in the Irden region; after a short telephone conversation between QTB representatives and Ferrum, the Nexus and Gasan accept the offer and begin planning an operation to end the increasingly despotic rule of the Takke dynasty. 

858 Nonaggression pact between Ferrum, Miayan, Yineng, and Kifia.
Renewed in 880 between Ferrum and the QTB (political Siayeo Nexus)

Wisden formation : 866 ~ Kasovat : 843 ~~ Nexus learns of what Ferrum is doing.

-- * --

With the era of Banbengsam coming to an end in 979, numerous factions campaigned to revive hostilities with their monarchist counterparts in Takke Irdenia in retaliation for the invasion that had taken place during the Mourning Day Revolution, having incurred several massacres amidst the confusion of the rapidly mobilized and irregular militia that had risen in league against Banbengsam's regime. Yet in that year, the strength of even unprepared Irdenian regulars had laid waste to lands near the capital, and the uncertain new regime could ill tackle a second war atop the monumental task of rectifying the century of decay that factional struggle and despotic rule had wrought upon the frameworks laid down during the time of the Nuenkesarilit League. Moreover, membership among the prosperous Siayeo nations was largely conditional on the promise of stability - to eschew it would be to dispose at the same time the relief funds from newly established Gasan's nominal Tiaremed allies. Economic integration too, seemed inevitable : both Irdenia and Gasan had been declining in wealth, and the fragile balance between them had been shattered with Banbengsam's death. Stuck between the powerful Maritovan Federation and the Ten Banners Bloc, the nearly-landlocked state of Gasan could neither outcompete nor leverage foreign connections against its immediate neighbours.

Almost fifty years later, the situation had changed a great deal. Between agricultural reforms, petrochemical extraction, and the rapidly expanding forest industry, it had become wealthy enough to support a competent army, and the Nexus itself had gained a powerful prospective ally in the form of the Ferrum Republic: far from being maritime rivals, the two had cultivated a cooperative relationship amidst the changing power balance of Laylain between Maritova, Nya, and Interdincia. More significantly still, the Lhoayan Chxa Dynasty became engaged in a civil war from 987 to its bloody end in 1019, taking the floor out from under the greater part of the Irdenian remnant's support base in the Nexus - combined with the traumatized troops returning to Kifia and Yineng from the Mediyan Crisis and conflict with the NSR, a newfound wave of anti-totalitarian sentiment swept over the Tiaremed states, which had insofar abstained from disturbing the convoluted political entanglements between Irdenia, the Kritian Empire, and the monarchies of the Nexus. More significantly still, the victory of Tim's faction over the Northern Islands nations became an observable fact - Irdenia, which shared with ancient Nanask not only its script and language, but insidious traditions of maritime and caste-enforced slavery, had become inconvenient to those who wished to parley with the rising power in the North.

The import of khoggee and tilcona into Irdenia began with galley slaves, brought on by unscrupulous traders and forced to row under threat of muskets and dehydration - with the former this often went poorly, and terrified captains - both hired and those appointed by successful, often khoggee-assisted mutineers - often stranded khoggee on barren islands across the Northwest. The remarkably hardiness of the khoggee served them well in saving their lives, but also much ill, for the many small villages resultant made easy, isolated targets for raiders, and the extraction of living tithes was commonplace before the Tiaremed uprisings in the mid-700s; though caste slavery itself was already practiced in Nanask among its own people, it is thought by some that Tiarem had witnessed, and in no small part been influenced by the horrors of this trade in their dialogues upon the evils of earthly disrespect, wherein many examples and forms of slavery are forbidden to all Tiarem's followers. Amidst this widespread cruelty, many had recognized the use of khoggee as not merely risky but productive labourers, but as weapons. It was not long before the kingdoms of Nanask and Irden had among them preferentially treated slaves of war, carrying towering suits of armor and hefting bombards no Ymosuri would lift - together with their business ties across the western sea, these war khoggee stood as a reason why these states stood so resolutely against the greater wealth and technical expertise of the wealthier and more technologically sophisticated Nexus powers further south - viscerally demonstrated during the Crimson Rains, from which even now can be observed pits of bones and unblasted incendiary mortar bombs a brisk walk from any major road in northern Touma.