-- * --

Sunblessed Lands : A History of Western Toüma

--

1 : The Leiak League (4th century BC - 180s BC)

Before the Tiaremed states existed the solar kingdoms, and before them existed the Leiak principalities of the 4th and 3rd centuries BC. Theirs was a world of gold and pearls, atop the backs of lobster-fed slaves paying the debts of their ancestors. They rowed the galleys, broke the cliffs, cleared the forests, and gathered the fruit of the sea, from which artisans and furnace-masters brewed the potions and incenses used in the elaborate contests of influence and bribery held by the Leiak princes; with their backs to the mountains and feet to the sea, they had long come to the conclusion that maintaining the peace between them allowed vast sums to be dedicated to the mercenary armies and fire-spewing vessels securing their trade routes and tributary subjects. Yet this was a fragile balance, reliant on the prosperity of foreign shores - like many of the kingdoms preceding the Utwelanjaen Qayan, they would not survive the fourfould crisis enveloping Touma in the mid-2nd century BC.

Plague, frost, flood and blight came ashore of northern Touma, crippling their armies and causing countless untold deaths from hunger and exposure. Records rotted along with the kingdoms they beheld, and chaos descended upon them; only the Wajma, Noyi, Uyling, and Dalheyod possess intact histories, having made the decision to evacuate their peoples and flee past the waters of the Hangsha. All contain tales of abject tragedy, to contrast the Leiak triumphs: fleets of mercenaries and pirates pillaged what remained, and many a vivid tale was written of the riches brought from those lost kingdoms. Prince Nakangksa of Hceyanbacczan was recorded to have nearly quadrupled her fortunes from raiding alone, leading expeditions past Riussiki (now Maritovan) and as far afield as Seret (now Ferrumite) - holds bursting with tributes living and nonliving, she had returned home one spring in 241 BC only to find her industries stalled by rebelling servants, and her coffers too empty to satisfy the rapidly inflating wages of the armsmen in her employ.

The disintegration of the Leiak leagues began under the pressures of overwhelming opportunity: afforded to some, given to fewer, and instrumental in the simultaneous ruin of both the greater regional economy and the political stability of the inland Leiak states. Suochrosin, fortress-capital of the eastern route, was overtaken from within by the warlord Wajanpi, stalling all river trade downstream along the Hangsha; his campaign would continue southwest and terminate at the sea, his numbers bolstered by the mercenary refugees still arriving from the devastated north. The remainder to the northwest, having previously reaped the fruit of the fourfould crisis, were no more prepared for its eventual arrival in the 230s, leaving vast swathes of land unpopulated, uncultivated, and choked by the rapidly growing jungles. Worse still, the ascendant Utwelanjaen Qayan had secured much of Touma against raids with their military campaigns, cutting off the dwindling income streams still supporting the rule of the Leiak - even Suochrosin would fall in 202 BC, securing the Hangsha and ushering in an age of disunity, foreign occupation, and warlordism in western Touma until the rise of Irden and Nanask in the mid-400s AC.

2 : Two Autumns (180s BC ~ 400s AC)

Despite the rise of the Utwelanjaen Qayan, there was at first a peace between the remaining Leiak and the treaty of the Hangsha. Both did ally against the warlord Wajanpi from 205 to 181 BC, nearly driving him into the sea - that is, until the Utwelanjaen Qayan itself schismed, erupting into a war that would erase the state of Sandan and forge a ceasefire, a non-aggression pact, and finally an alliance between the aging warlord Wajanpi and the Shisha confederation. Shisha, aiming to secure its newly acquired Sandan territory, and Wajanpi, eager for an ally in his conflicts with the battered Leiak, would together successfully conquer all the Leiak lands south of the Hangsha by 159 BC, when Wajanpi finally passed his rule to his nephew-in-law. Despite the many enemies he made, he was afterwards respected as a wise and capable ruler - many of the Leiak histories draw from the memoirs he wrote with his husband after retiring to his private estate in the town of Kisourbin (now a Kifian provincial capital) upon the southwestern shore. He died peacefully at 127 years of age in 122 BC.

Nanwefi, though by most accounts a gifted administrator, was a far less capable strategist than his uncle. Despite repeated requests from his sister to establish a navy and secure the western trade routes, Nanwefi would largely ignore the worsening of Leiak pirate activity, contributing to the broader decline in Yunamer trade that would curb both his budget and the prosperity of Shisha and (Xaqa)Urwe. Instead, he dedicated much of his time and funds to inland development projects and social reforms: the systematisation of the tax system, the establishment of royal ceremonies, and more radically, the transition from private debt slavery to public temple service, shrewdly integrated with widespread and systematic purges of Leiak influence. It should be noted that the latter was not done purely out of compassion. The debt slavery of the Leiak had been thrown into chaos along with their records, causing countless incidents of illegal enslavement and contract forging that overwhelmed constables and fuelled endemic fraud and kidnapping rings. Moreover, Nanwefi himself felt threatened by the loyalty of his military to his sister, who they considered closer to Wajanpi in both affect and martial prowess - and so this was but one of many efforts in his plan to elevate the solar priesthood in his birth city of Aürbanisan, ordaining the new state of Nanask to be forever sun-blessed.

An






3 : Nanask and Irdentu (400s ~ 720s)

The import of khoggee and tilcona into Irdentu began with galley slaves, brought on by unscrupulous traders and forced to row under threat of muskets and dehydration - with the former this often went poorly, and terrified captains - both hired and those appointed by successful, often khoggee-assisted mutineers - often stranded khoggee on barren islands across the Northwest. The remarkable hardiness of the khoggee served them well in preserving their lives, but also much ill, for the many small villages resultant made easy, isolated targets for raiders, and the extraction of living tithes was commonplace before the Tiaremed uprisings in the mid-700s; though a form of caste slavery itself was already practiced in Nanask among its own people, it is thought by some that Tiarem had witnessed, and in no small part been influenced by the horrors of this trade in their dialogues upon the evils of earthly disrespect, wherein many examples and forms of slavery are forbidden to all Tiarem's followers.

The khoggee, with their towering frames and fearsome strength, had long been recognized for their potential as weapons.  It was not long before the kingdoms of Nanask and Irden possessed preferentially treated slaves of war, carrying towering shields and hefting bombards no Ymosuri would lift - together with their business ties across the western sea, these war khoggee stood as a reason why these states stood so resolutely against the greater Nexus powers further south and east - viscerally demonstrated during the Black and Crimson Rains, from which even now can be observed pits of bones and unblasted incendiary mortar bombs a brisk walk from any major road in northern Touma.





4 : 