-- * --

**Introduction : The Brief and Forever War** (1025 Medijan Crisis)

--

> "He came back from the war in autumn, but the war didn't leave him. I saw him leave in spring next year, a stranger with news of our son." *- The Medijan Volunteers, Boennha Atue*

In the spring of 1025 AC, a massive aerial flotilla of the Navarin Socialist Republic set course for what they would discover to be the Medijan League, signatory of the Yunamer Passage Agreement and ill-tempered sibling to the ancient imperial state of Eiyanixie. As they flew over Nyayanese lands, warning of their passage was sent to the Imperial Nyayanese Embassy in Tixyikteran; mere hundreds of fighters and airships scrambled in time to be blown away by the guns of the incoming invasion, and the neglected coastal fortresses of Yeri Za's Medijan could fire no more than a handful of shells before the fleet passed overhead. Within thirty minutes of their first engagement off the western coast, the Navarin Socialist Republic rained bombs and shells down upon the northern Medijan city of Ohonakre - crude munitions that would burst with noxious vapours and, as would become apparent within hours, virulent plagues that would kill hundreds of thousands of civilians in the following days. The five capitals of Medijan, having plied the incoming fleet with increasingly desperate requests to parlay, saw then that there was no room for diplomacy in their hearts. The streets of Ohonakre ran red with blood; Yapobare and Telacaykran would lay abandoned, and Mumdaghan would be burnt to the ground. Wyrasin alone would survive the genocidal conflict that would engulf Medijan for ten long years.

The first months of the war were nearly as brutal as its first days, pinning millions of ill-prepared Medijan soldiers and civilians between a seasoned and ruthless army, local air superiority, and the systematic destruction of Medijan food and water supplies. Though briefly thought to be chemical in nature, fast-acting battlefield pathogens were successfully isolated from patients on the second day of the war, allowing timely implementation of quarantine measures. Despite this, fourteen percent of Medijan's population - as well as tens of thousands of exposed Eiyan civilians and medical personnel - would die of person-to-person transmitted bioweapon infections within the first six months. QTB coalition forces would fully deploy to Medijan by 1026, trapping the expeditionary fleet within the restored anti-aircraft cordon, and by 1027 would successfully establish both a stable frontline and an extensive biohazard containment perimeter surrounding the depopulated zone. Synchronized outbreaks and NSR offensives would nearly succeed in breaching this perimeter in 1028, 1030, and 1031, resulting in the expansion of the depopulated zone to its present state; though there were early operations to retake parts of the zone, the attritive strain of decontamination efforts and the heavy casualties incurred by entrenched NSR forces were poorly justified by intentions to reclaim a useless, hostile wasteland.

Much of the later war would involve the continuous suppression of NSR activity with Lemming torpedoes, ripple cannons, and incendiary bombs, combined with tight aerial and foot patrols in the quarantine zone to intercept irregulars and light tunnelling operations. While the front line would continue to see intermittent combat between 1032 and 1035, depletion of the expedition's remaining stockpile of advanced armaments in 1031 would put an end to its ability to break through the multi-layered fortifications throughout Medijan and Eiyanixie. With the defense stabilized and flanks assured, QTB generals briefly resumed their forays into the depopulated zone using heavy walkers; however, these did little more than force the remainder of the war almost completely underground, where rates of demining and decontamination were far too slow to allow occupation forces to safely contract the containment perimeter. Effective neutralization of the NSR threat would not be fulfilled until the arrival of the Navarin Federation in 1037, to which the territory was formally ceded in early 1036. Medijan itself, having lost two thirds of its people, half its territory, and four fifths of its industry, would become so heavily impoverished that its mean real income would not return to half of pre-war levels until 1065. The war would end with 12.5~13.0 million dead, 8.0~8.5 million displaced, and lingering trauma that would poison Siayeo sentiment towards western Laylain for centuries.

...

Blurbs - The Brief and Ever War (1025 Medijan Crisis)

> Leatherskin Militias
The swamps, jungles, and treacherous terrain of Medijan heavily limited the amount of force the QTPY could bring to bear - but while the same could be said of the Navarin forces in this regard, they had brought with them the ability and willingness to employ unrestricted viral warfare against which the Siayeo had little intrinsic defense. Medijan soldiers on the front line, choked of supplies and basic medical care by rolling quarantines and catastrophic deep strikes against supply depots and civilian centres, died in droves in the trenches. Many used improvised mixtures of alcohol and diluted propellant-grade perchloric acid to perform emergency decontamination, causing severe burns and scarring that would earn them the moniker of 'leatherskins' from arriving volunteer forces. Loai volunteers, bringing with them their wartime experiences of chemical and toxicological warfare, would introduce the use of a thick, petroleum-based lotion to protect the skin from exposure to decontamination agents.

> The Weather War
Aided by the Great Tree and advanced meteorological predictors operating in Shisha, early geothumatic means for weather control were trialled in Medijan to provide maximally favorable conditions to aerial and naval operations. Benefiting from a vast network of smoke emitters, day lanterns, sacred groves, and cloud seeding aircraft, reconnaissance missions over Medijan could spend as much as 95% of their flight time in operationally useful cloud cover across any given week. The opposite could also be achieved - a region eight hundred kilometres in length and twenty kilometres in depth ahead of the third defensive line was cleared of rain for twenty days and then burned to provide clear sightlines for quarantine patrols.

> Day Lanterns
The main anti-aircraft weapon of the Anggayan Volunteer Expeditionary Army over the course of the war, day lanterns were originally intended to scour enemy infantry and contaminated surfaces with intense sunlight. Though the dense foliage of Medijan made this all but impossible, their burning rays were deemed sufficiently oppressive that NSR air raids had shifted almost entirely to nighttime operations by late 1026 AC in AVEA-controlled areas, long before Siayeo forces enjoyed effective air superiority over their front line. AVEA commanders running low on medical supplies began using day lanterns to sterilize their own troops and equipment in early 1026, a practice which proved so effective that the QTPY included them in its stockpiling register from 1027 until their replacement with more versatile ultraviolet lamps in 1029.

> The Stone Tax
The immense volume of strategic bombardments carried out against the NSR demanded that the manufacture of bombs and shells be heavily streamlined. Yet as much as the Siayeo industry might have been technically capable, the apparent containment of the NSR early on in the war made many loath to allocate further funding to munitions production. Ripple cannon units, already reliant on cheap liquid oxygen and fuel oil propellant, were pushed to devise a variety of cheap incendiary munitions to lower operational costs, eventually settling on a crude shell filled with cryogenically liquefied fuel gas that, some time after spilling on impact, would be set alight by a chemical fuze to devastating effect on trenches and compromised tunnel complexes. 1.2 billion such shells would be fired into NSR-controlled areas over the course of the war; crews often complained about their use, with one record commenting that 'a tax of scarcely a stone would do, to warm my frostburnt fingers.'



