-- * --
Geothumatic Condenser Arrays
> MSP Technology, available 1038 AC
--

In the spring of 1022, a team of Siayeo, Marigold, Nyayanese, and Velkotran scientists at the Dayanilus Antarctic Facility carried an array of highly sensitive thumatic gauges aboard Marigold Ministry of Sciences [MMS] Dirigibel Leger no.143, a prometheum-free expeditionary science vessel with a service ceiling of 15.5 kilometres. Taking measurements of various remote locations far above the earth, the expedition would carry out the first global survey of Nostra's geothumatic variation. By comparing these measurements with local variations of the chaotic surface, scholars across the world would champion varying scientific theories of field thumodynamics; most, however, fell by the wayside as they failed to explain the lagging coincidence of near- and far-field geothumatic fluctuations.

In 1034, Adepts in the temple city of Balg Tahelang in eastern Loa published a manuscript detailing various experiences of the Great Tree recorded in its memory pools. Many dated back to the time of the 1022 Dahanilus Expeditions, for which the Great Tree had acquired a particular fascination: of the sprite waves shed between 1023 and 1024, nearly a quarter consisted of exploratory sprites seeking to capture the geothumatic fluctuations of the earth. Most were short-lived, having gathered too little of interest to delay their natural dissolution, but three would linger in the pressurized hydrothermal systems underlying the prometheum mines of An Ze - revitalized by the discovery of an earthquake-triggered thumatic anomaly, they successfully manifested a Bloom of Curiosity that would conduct experiments in the region for the next ten years.

By 1030 AC, the deployment of seismic probes and thumatic instruments across the Middle Sea allowed Bloom of Curiosity to pinpoint the location of quake-triggered thumatic anomalies, the investigation of which would lead the Great Tree to develop the Thumatic Glider Hypothesis. Likening the thumatic field to a still sea of suspended ripples, the Great Tree held its natural relaxation to be dependent on its anchoring to our timestream by observable thumatic processes. Like gliding leaves on a windblown pond, these were described to accumulate energy from the transverse friction of time before breaking the surface tension of the thumatic contact. Bloom of Curiosity ascribed the An Ze thumatic anomalies to conductance changes within rheochemical prometheum crystallization waves, the random synchronization of which caused coherent decay of thumatic phenomena. By replicating these events in slurry-bed shock flows, Bloom of Curiosity would successfully induce thumatic amplification in 1033 AC before suffering lethal disruption by earthquake activation of the test site.

In 1036, a Siayeo-Velkotran research group based in Beyl Gaor and funded by the Middle Sea Development Commission constructed a 30 kilowatt array of thumovoltaic particle beam colliders capable of dissociating the thumatic energy of prometheum ions. Operation of the collider caused apparent manifestation of thumatic disturbances at considerable distances through thick walls, and experiments conducted simultaneously across multiple colliders were impacted by severe mutual interference. While diagnosing the destruction of several transmission tubes by destabilizing beams, a pair of Eiyan scientists rediscovered the works of Bloom of Curiosity; based on its formulas, they built and patented the first dedicated device to influence the thumatic field distribution using geothumatic fluctuations in summer of 1038 AC.

Geothumatic condenser arrays consist of vertical prometheum ion colliders spaced tens or hundreds of metres apart, generally being at most five kilometres from the operating target. Their most obvious use is the direct amplification of thumatic field strength, catalyzing certain thumatic processes and opening the tantalizing possibility of geothumatic power generation; however, their geothumatic coupling and sensitivity to various thumatic processes also makes them useful in the role of anomaly detection, from mineral prospecting to border control and even subterranean communication. Particularly large arrays are also hypothesized to unlock the potential for large scale weather manipulation, but so far there has been no effective method of mitigating their adverse effects on thumatically active life forms, which have been known to experience sudden onset of nausea, seizures, cognitive dysfunction, and in the case of Bloom of Curiosity, death.

Note : Localized experiments seeking to halt the natural decay of prometheum have yet to produce measurable results, and little enthusiasm exists for funding to increase their scale - hypotheses of the equilibrium thumatic field density of prometheum vary by orders of magnitude, and it is yet unknown at what depth in Nostra prometheum typically forms.